Our
[Music]
near-term outlook on equities isn't
great. Some of those valuations seem
much more ephemeral and dotcomike.
>> Overall market's really not that
expensive once you take out the mag 7.
>> A key word for investors now and always
is diversification.
>> It's really about long-term investing.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Bramowitz, and An
Marie Hordern.
Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning. For our
audience worldwide, Bloomberg
surveillance starts right now. Coming
into Monday with big tech back at
all-time highs, a record share of fund
managers say US stocks are overvalued.
Just one day before a trade truce
between the US and China expires, Nvidia
and AMD agreeing to pay the US
government 15% of their revenue from
Chinese chip sales.
>> This is highly unprecedented, Jonathan.
Basically, the US government is taking a
piece of corporate America's pie when it
comes to these two chip makers, Nvidia
and AMD. And what makes it so
complicated, even from people that
served in Trump's first administration
was National Security Council. These
chips that they're going to be taking
15% from, are the MI308 on AMD and the
H20s from Nvidia. And these chips had
export controls on them in April because
the Trump administration said they were
aiding the Chinese military. Now, these
companies are getting the export
licenses if and because they're giving
15% back to the US government.
>> So, let's pick up on those two words,
national security. Are we putting a
price on national security or do you
think the rationale of national security
was misleading to begin with?
>> I think we still it remains to be seen
and it depends on the pattern of what we
see in this administration though. The
fact that you see tariffs go into effect
and the president says maybe we can have
less tar less tariffs if you invest in
the United States. Now, they're
basically saying, "Okay, we're going to
unwind our export controls. You could
send them to China, but we're going to
have to take some of that money. And I
think in this part from the Trump
administration's thinking potentially,
they see killing two birds, one stone.
We're able to make some money from this.
And we were able to use this as a
bargaining chip. Remember, the Treasury
Secretary told us a mosaic in the trade
talks because they needed those rare
earth metals.
>> So, we're all waking up this morning
with tons of questions. Here are mine.
Is this unique to the chip makers,
unique to AMD, to Nvidia, or is this a
new model for the White House to extend
beyond this sector to other companies
with a business in China?
>> Remains to be seen, but likely why
wouldn't we be able to potentially see
this again? This is what someone who was
a China expert who served under Trump's
National Security Council in the first
administration told the Financial Times,
quote, Beijing must be gloating to see
Washington turn export licenses into
revenue streams. What's next? letting
Loheed Martin sell F-35s to China for
15% commission.
>> Nvidia down this morning by about 1%.
The broader market doing okay. Equity
futures positive by around about a tenth
of 1%. Coming up this hour, we'll try
and answer some of those questions.
We'll catch up with Cameron Dawson of
New Edge Wealth looking for a choppy
August. We'll speak to the former White
House trade advisor Kellyanne Shaw as
the government strikes a deal with chip
makers and Andrew Honhorse of City
calling for the Fed to cut rates at its
next five meetings. We begin this hour
with stocks near record highs ahead of
inflation data later this week. Cameron
Dawson of New Edge Wealth writing,
"There are reasons to expect continued
equity chop in August with risk rising
if the market remains overly calm and
complacent." Cameron joins us now for
more. Cameron, good morning.
>> Good morning.
>> Is this a market that's overly calm and
complacent?
>> Well, we certainly have seen signs of
very rapid risk takingaking. If you
think about leadership in the market
over the course of the last couple of
months has been in very lowquality parts
of the market, which means that
investors are very willing to take
flyers. But if you look at some of the
sentiment surveys, they're not all too
stretched. AI is still pretty middling.
You are seeing signs that positioning
has certainly chased strength higher. So
people aren't nearly as underweight.
They're more neutral now, which just
means that positioning is less of a
tailwind as it used to be. But if you
look at valuations, if you look at
earnings estimates, these are all signs
of that people are expecting a lot of
optimism. So there's really no downside
that's being priced in, but because of
positioning, you still could see a
chase.
>> Let's pick out a pocket of optimism, the
big bet right now, the big bets for
2026. Yeah,
>> a pick up in 26. What underpins the
pickup in 26? Well, it is fascinating if
you break down the earnings estimates
between revenue growth, which is
expected to accelerate into 2026 in what
I would say is a decelerating nominal
GDP growth environment. So, that's
question number one. Question number two
is then you already have about over a
100 basis points of margin expansion
already baked into 2026 estimates which
suggests that the market is expecting
some kind of productivity boom whether
that's just coming from normal blocking
and tackling and cost cuts or some kind
of AI miracle. So the 2026 numbers at
about $300 a share. There's a lot of
optimism baked in, but you have the
bulls on the street effectively saying
those numbers are still too low simply
because of things like AI. When it comes
to revenue streams though, and you think
about next year, Goldman Sachs has a
note out today saying the tariff impact
is yet to be seen when it comes to
consumers, when it comes to corporate
America. Isn't that a huge risk for next
year? I think that that is the big risk
and wild card, which is that companies
have been very hesitant to want to pass
on tariff increases to consumers thus
far. You've seen pockets of it, but
companies are worried that if they raise
prices that they will lose market share,
meaning that prices go up, quantity goes
down. So, we haven't seen this full pass
through of inflation to consumers.
Companies have been absorbing it more,
taking it more on a hit to margins. So,
as we see these tariff rates get set in
stone, as the uncertainty about where
they land starts to fade away, we would
expect companies to pass on more of
these costs to consumers and thus you
could see that revenue number be more of
a challenge because it means you're
giving up on quantity.
>> So then my question is why is everyone
so bullish for 2026?
>> Because 2026 isn't here yet and you have
this huge liquidity uh tide that is
continuing to support markets. I think
it's important to remember that often
times we try to ascribe narrative to
price action and that the price action
can be driven by things that are not
related to what's going on with the
narrative or earnings growth. So as
we're seeing earning uh the the market
drift higher because of things like
liquidity, because of things like
positioning, we look around and say it
must be because earnings are so
fantastic when in reality it could be
those other drivers.
>> Remember payrolls feels like a lifetime
ago. More data this week, CPI tomorrow,
retail sales later this week. What are
you and the team looking for from this
week's data?
>> Yeah, the question will be is how saucy
could inflation prints have to be that
it challenges the 80% or almost 90%
expectations for a rate cut in September
and really the inflation is going to be
under the surface that we're looking
for. The headline numbers may still be
fairly stable and benign, but it's
looking in the durable goods line where
you're expecting to see that inflation
pass through. So the question will be is
are you seeing enough of an inflation
pass through that it backs the Fed into
a corner where they're having to choose
between a weaker labor market as versus
higher inflation. And we've been calling
this environment stagflation light which
is just you're getting a deceleration in
growth with sticky inflation is
something that this current Fed and
that's an important point. This current
Fed won't like the future Fed may not be
as much of a problem to deliver.
>> The dual mandate is in conflict already.
Before we get to the future Fed, let's
focus with the one we've got. Do you
sense they're going to prioritize one
half of the mandate over the other by
the time we get to September?
>> Well, they certainly seem to be members
of the Fed are leaning that way, saying
that we have the ability to look through
the the uh inflation that's driven by
tariffs. Even Pal said that at the last
press conference. We do expect these
inflation dynamics from tariffs to be
temporary. So it means that if the labor
market continues to show signs of
deterioration, even if you see some
tariff impacts in the CPI line
underneath the surface, they could still
deliver the cuts.
>> Michelle Bowman over the weekend is
talking about now she wants three cuts
before the end of the year. How many
cuts do you think the Fed will actually
come to fruition? Well, we've been in
this camp that we think that the Fed is
going to deliver all or nothing at all.
Which means that if the labor market
remains resilient, which we got data
that suggested that that's not the case,
that they wouldn't cut at all, but that
if the labor market deteriorates, then
they start to make a path in a march
towards neutral. And so it's very
possible that you could see three cuts
this year simply as they are moving in
that direction towards a neutral rate
which we know is you know the Fed thinks
it's over 100 basis points lower from
where it is here.
>> But we have two more CPIs, one more jobs
print before the Fed meets.
>> Mhm.
>> What what more what are you putting more
weight on?
So, we we do think that the labor market
data isn't necessarily weak enough that
they have to step in and do a big 50
basis points cut, but we do think that
the inflation data could mean that they
have to balance this dual mandate. So,
it just means that maybe they cut and
move slightly towards neutral, but they
don't deliver the deep degree of cuts
that many bulls are expecting.
>> That's the data this week. Let's finish
on two single names. I know you can't
cover these single names directly, but I
just want to understand what your
reception of this news is, how you're
receiving it on AMD, on Nvidia to
basically turn around to an American
company and say, "If you want to play,
you've got to pay. Give us our cut."
>> Yeah. If we go back to April, we we were
debating whether what role these tariffs
played. Were they simply just a revenue
raising mechanism or were they actually
intending to rebalance global trade and
accomplish some geopolitical types of of
aims? It seems more and more that this
is just a true pursuit of revenue. That
means that they stick around. That means
that they get baked into budget
forecasts. It means that the rate that
we have today should be seen as a floor,
not a ceiling.
>> I don't know what this means for
equities, but does that make it bullish
for bonds?
>> In theory, yes. because it means that if
you're continuously raising revenue,
even though you can't put it in the
budget statistics, you don't have to
issue as many treasuries because you
have this external revenue service slush
fund in order to pay your bills.
>> Bona this morning on a 10ear down by
about two basis points. The 10-year 426
on 30s this morning down to about 483.
>> What feels highly unusual about the
setup of this and so far we don't know
yet. The Trump administration hasn't
said what they're going to use these
funds for, where it's actually going to
go to. The administration has tried to
use this carrot and stick approach with
companies and countries to invest in the
United States, build a plant,
manufacture, please come make this your
home. This is outright saying what you
said, if you want to play, if you want
to do business outside of the US, well,
you're just going to have to give us a
cut.
>> Cameron, it's good to see you as always.
Thanks for dropping by. Cameron Dawson
there of New Edge Wealth. If you are
just joining us, welcome to the program.
Big inflation print coming up later on
this week going into that very close to
all-time highs on the S&P. Equity
futures so far this morning pushing just
a little bit higher. With an update on
stories elsewhere this morning with your
Bloomberg brief, let's cross over to
Yhara Arnand. Hey yra.
>> Good morning John. Shares of Nvidia and
AMD are trading lower in the pre-market
after the chip makers cut an
unprecedented deal to pay 15% of their
China AI chip sales to the US
government. The agreement will allow
them to export licenses to the country
and reflects President Trump's effort to
engineer a financial payout for America
in return for concessions on trade.
Meanwhile, the US expects to complete
trade negotiations with countries that
have yet to secure a trade deal by the
end of October. That's according to Nick
a Asia, citing an interview with
Treasury Secretary Scott Besson. He also
reaffirmed the importance of the Fed's
independence, but said that the next
central bank head should be very attuned
to forward thinking. And President Trump
is preparing to meet with Russian
President Vladimir Putin in Alaska on
Friday to discuss ending the war in
Ukraine. President Vladimir Zalinski
said Keev won't seed territory to end
the war with Russia. European leaders
pledged their continued support for
Ukraine sovereignty, saying
international borders must not be
changed by force. That's Chip Bloomberg
Reef. John
>> Yihara, thank you. More from Yihara
later on this hour. Up next on the
program, pay to play.
>> The H20 was the third best chip in the
world. The president has decided that
the Chinese can buy them, but that's in
a balanced way with the Chinese
delivering on the deal that we made with
them.
>> Up next, we'll catch up with Bloomberg's
Tom McKenzie live from New York City
this morning. Good morning.
[Music]
live from New York City. Welcome to the
program. Here's your week ahead. It
starts with inflation tomorrow morning.
USCPI just around the corner, 8:30
Eastern time. More data through the
week. On Thursday, PPI and jobless
claims on Friday, look out for retail
sales. And then in the middle of all of
this, not really been talked about so
far this morning or over the last week
for that matter. The trade truce between
the US and China expires in the next 24
hours. Now, most people assume there
will be an extension of this truce by
another 90 days, but we haven't seen
that extension just yet.
>> Haven't seen the extension yet. When it
comes to the London talks, Secretary
Besson said, "When it comes to the final
decision, that'll be left for Trump."
Trump hasn't said that yet. What did he
do overnight, though? He started
truththing about China buying more
soybeans on the basically right before
this deal is set to expire and we go
into harvest season in the United
States. What my understanding from this
administration, from the Treasury
Secretary, is that there's likely going
to be another 90-day extension, but to
your point, we don't have it just yet.
Look out for that in the next 24 hours.
For the broader equity market coming
into Monday, close to all-time highs and
adding some weight to the rally. Equity
futures up by another tenth of 1%. We
have seen it on repeat over the last
week. Upgrades to the outlook for the
S&P 500 price target at Capital
Economics at HSBC at City on Friday
going into the weekend. What's on on
earnings? Better than expected earnings
in America. Even with all the trade
friction continuing, the earnings story
has been pretty powerful. That's why you
see the NASDAQ coming into Monday at
record highs. That's the equity market
under surveillance this morning. It's
pay to play.
>> The H20 was the third best chip in the
world and now it's the fourth best. The
president has decided that if things are
going well with China that they can buy
them. So I think that decision's been
made. We are putting on the licensing
mechanism and uh we are getting that
going. But the president has decided
that the Chinese can buy them. But
that's in a balanced way with the
Chinese delivering on the deal that we
made with them and they're delivering
rare earths.
>> So here's the latest this morning.
Sources telling us here at Bloomberg
that Nvidia and AMD have agreed to pay
the US government 15% of their revenues
from chip sales in China in order to
secure export licenses. Joining us now
is Bloomberg's Tom McKenzie. Tom,
welcome back to the show, buddy. Let's
just talk about how this is going to
work. How is this going to work?
15% of sales, 15% of the revenues that
they make from those sales into the
China market of the H20 when it comes to
Nvidia or AMD's equivalent once they
start shipping those, they will get the
export license. According to this
reporting, if they pay that 15% into the
US Treasury, that apparently is how it's
going to work. There are legal questions
around this. If this is categorized as
an export tax, potentially there are
legal challenges to this. But according
to our reporting, this is what Nvidia
and AMD have signed up for. And again,
quoting some of the analysts in our own
reporting, pretty unprecedented. Hard to
think of another example of a US
corporate signing up to this kind of
export demand from the US government.
China, meanwhile, yet to officially
comment, John, on this development, but
they have in recent days, pointed out
through state media and through blogs
affiliated with state media concerns
about what they describe as national
security risks associated with Nvidia's
H20 at a time, of course, when China is
now showing no signs at all of walking
back from its doubling down on building
out its own chip sector and ensuring
that it has less dependency on those US
AI accelerators. Tom, you spent years in
China. What do you think they're
thinking behind the scenes in terms of
the US going to corporate America and
saying, "You can send these chips to
China that we originally blocked because
of national security concerns. We just
want a piece of the pie."
>> I think if you rewind the clock 6
months, China is in a much better
position versus now. The H20s, the
licenses, it seems, will be approved for
those. You look at the movements in
terms of the equity markets for China.
Yes, they have all the concerns about
the domestic consumer and about the real
estate and property sector. Those remain
the geopolitical tensions. You talked
about the fact that this truce is
expected to be extended again by 90
days. China continues to invest. You see
the developments coming through from the
likes of Huawei at 7 nanometers and
Xpung according to reports coming
through with a chip of 5 nanometers. Not
closing in on three nanometers that the
likes of TSMC are churning out, but
closing that gap. So, they're going to
get access to the H20, but continue to
build out their own AI accelerator
capacity and try and close that gap. I
think China will probably be rubbing its
hands at the prospects of potential
domestic push back on this policy as
they continue again to try and funnel
investments into AI accelerators that
they continue to need that underpin the
models of course of Alibaba, Deepseek
and others. And it's really high silicon
that sits at the heart of Huawei that is
leading the charge on this front. Tom,
are you basically saying that China
needs the MI308 from AMD and the H20
from Nvidia just to bridge to basically
when they're up to par where the United
States is in terms of these advanced AI
semiconductors?
>> China has not spelt out, Amry, its
policy around this, but it is pretty
clear that a reliance on US chips is not
what China is going to be comfortable
with. And the fact that Jensen Hang has
essentially said, look to the US and to
President Trump, we should continue. We
should be allowed to continue to supply
these AL accelerators into the Chinese
market precisely because if it comes to
it, we could just pull the plug on those
that gets picked up by China. They're
listening to that. So yes, this can tie
them over until they have their own
capacity. There's the other question
about national security. the case being
made by the Biden administration and by
the Trump administration to allies in
the Netherlands and in Japan, do not
sell your hardware and software into the
Chinese market because of national
security concerns. Well, that now has
put a big question mark over it because
if you're prepared to pay that 15% then
suddenly national security concerns seem
to be being put on the back burner.
>> Hey Tom, well framed as always. Tom
McKenzie out of London this morning.
Tom, thank you. To build on the
conversation, Terry Haynes of Pangia
Policy joins us now for more. Terry,
good morning sir and welcome to the
program. Did we just put a price on
national security or was there never a
national security risk to begin with?
>> Uh good morning John and uh I think I'll
take the I think I'll take the third
door frankly. uh of all the uh of all
the options which you and Marie have
laid out very well this morning. I think
the uh the one I find most compelling or
more compelling is that uh this was part
of the uh USChina negotiations to begin
with. Uh and that's the only and that's
the principal reason why this chip's
being let out the door. I'll defer to
Secretary Lutnik on whether it's the
third best chip or the fourth best chip
or whatever, but the uh but the the fact
of the negotiations uh are really the uh
uh really the big deal here and Besson's
been very upfront about that.
>> Right. He called it a mosaic in the
trade talks using the chip in the talks
as a negotiating tool. But Terry, what
about the fact that the US government is
now saying you can send those chips over
if we get 15%. How is this capitalism
and not central planning?
>> Well, u I'm uh I'm not going to be an
apologist for the Trump people and they
have some explaining to do on that
front. I think uh uh but uh but I think
it's probably a mistake to read this as
some kind of a bigger pattern generally
speaking. Um I think what uh my instinct
on this is that uh what they did was the
final uh the final bit of this was to
say well you know let's see how how
desperate they are to actually want to
export uh let's let's see if they'll pay
something uh as the final piece of the
puzzle and they did. Uh but you got the
the tech industry being humbled on both
ends here. on the one hand uh uh the the
pieces being taken out of them out the
door on these chips and on the other end
China says they want the chips and now
apparently they might not want the chips
because there's an unacceptable back
door or uh they want uh they want these
companies to parse through uh the chip
to show them that there's not a back
door. Uh they're therefore showing you
where the back door would be. That sort
of thing. So uh either way uh this isn't
exactly the cruise the tech industry
signed up for either. So, I think
they're probably going to be wier of any
deal uh next time.
>> But Terry, if Trump can get away with
this, why wouldn't he do this with other
companies and key security products,
even things like LNG to Europe?
>> I'm not saying he would or he wouldn't.
All I'm saying is that I think this is
uh this is the first of a special
circumstance and I wouldn't uh I
wouldn't expect the administration to
extrapolate that. And you know, one
reason why, frankly, is it uh it makes
uh it makes the the ability to export uh
less attractive. So, uh I think in the
vast majority of cases the administr
this is not a tool the administration is
going to be interested in using uh in
any in any sense. Uh I don't think we're
going full full mercantalist here.
>> Speaking of China, tomorrow the day tant
between Beijing and Washington is set to
end. Do you think we get an extension?
And for how many extensions can these
two countries go through? Well, I do.
Uh, and but the reason why doesn't
really have anything directly to do with
China. It has everything to do with
China's client state, Russia. Uh, if you
if you one reason why the United States
is playing footsy with China, uh,
technical trade term we all know, is
that uh, they want they want to get
China to get Russia to stop the war in
Ukraine. The way not to do that is to
pile a bunch of tariffs on China this
week. So the reason fundamentally I
think uh the extension continues uh and
from there uh success or failure of the
Russian talks will will proceed. But you
know and what I said to markets
yesterday was you know you look at the
uh you look at the Russia talks as a
canary on the China talks if they go
directionally well the the Russia talks
that means China's playing with the idea
at least that it's time to wind up the
Russian Ukraine uh business. Uh but if
not then not. So I think you're going to
see directionally uh how one goes based
on the other.
>> Terry, appreciate it. Thank you sir.
Terry Hayes of Pangia Policy out of
Washington this morning. It's all one
big piece of the broader negotiation
>> potentially and Terry basically pointing
the fact that maybe Beijing is putting
the thumb on Moscow now to wind down
this war. It is interesting reading some
of the tea leaves. Xi Jinping got on a
call with Putin on Friday and in the
press readouts in China, there was this
idea that they look forward to these
discussions between Putin and Trump and
would like to see working towards a
peaceful resolution.
>> Are you expecting a resolution this
weekend?
>> No, I think the best case scenario is
that you get a process to a resolution.
So, there needs to be a process put in
place to really get to the fundamental
issues, a lot of national security
issues when it comes to Kev and Moscow.
That meeting taking place near the end
of this week. Up and next on the program
coming up, we'll catch up with the
former senior White House trade adviser
Kellyanne Shaw on the latest movement
with Nvidia and AMD. Plus, we'll catch
up with Yahara once again with your
morning movers with Coinbase rallying
this morning, mirroring a jump in crypto
prices. Coinbase up in a pre-market by
4.6%.
[Music]
Equities
doing okay this morning. Positive by a
tenth of 1% on the S&P 500. Alltime
highs on the Nasdaq 100. Equity markets
putting up the best week since June last
week following the worst jobs data since
the pandemic. It's not just equities.
High yield credit spreads tighter
Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday,
Friday. Equity market and risk assets
are doing okay. In the bond market,
2-year, 10-year, and 30-year bond yields
are lower this morning. We're down by
about a basis point on a 2-year down by
two on 10 to 42616. The next big stop
for this market about 24 hours away 8:30
tomorrow morning. USCPI the big data
point just around the corner. That's for
tomorrow. 3 hours away from the opening
power. Let's get you some morning
movers. Let's cross that back over to
Yahara. Hey yra. Hi, John. We start with
our top story today. Nvidia and AMD both
falling in the pre-market after they
agreed to hand over 15% of their China
AI chip revenues to the US government in
exchange for those export licenses.
Analysts of course are calling this
unprecedented, especially because there
had been a ban imposed for national
security reasons as you and Marie were
saying earlier, but of course this
aligns closely with the Trump
administration playbook of securing
financial concessions in return for
easing trade restrictions on companies.
Next up, we have shares of Coinbase.
They are rallying 4.4%
along with other cryptolink stocks this
morning. And this is because Bitcoin is
rallying as it gets within striking
distance of its all-time high of over
$122,000.
And what I thought was interesting is
that some analysts are saying that some
of this buying is in response to the
surprise US tariffs on gold bars which
caused chaos in the gold market last
week. And we are still waiting on the
White House to clarify those tariffs. We
may see that today. And we end on
Intermex that is soaring 58% as Western
unit announces that it is buying the
firm for $500 million as it makes a big
push into Latin America with this
acquisition. And the reason those shares
are rallying so hard is because Western
Union will pay $16 a share which is a
premium over 70% from Intramax's closing
price on Friday. John
>> Yhara, thank you. Thanks for the update
on our radar this morning. The chip
sector in focus. Nvidia and AMD agreeing
to pay 15% of their revenues from
Chinese AI chip sales to the US
government in a deal to secure export
licenses. The move following a White
House announcement allowing sales of
Nvidia's H20 chip to the country. Spare
a thought for Lip Bhutan. The Intel CEO
visiting the White House later on today.
The visit coming after President Trump
called for his immediate removal over
his ties to Chinese businesses. The Wall
Street Journal reporting that Tan hopes
to show his commitment to the United
States. So I think what he says is
commitment to the United States likely
that'll be what kind of money and
investment we are making in the US
especially on the heels of this report
that Nvidia and AMD are sending 15% of
their revenues when it comes to these
high advanced chips to China to the US
government. What's one thing is really
interesting the Wall Street Journal
reported this on Friday. It's not just
the pressure this CEO is getting from
the Oval Office. He's in the hot seat as
well when it comes to directors and the
board about strategy going forward for
this company.
>> Intouse under pressure. Nvidia and AMD
in focus this morning. Let's just talk
about those two names. Unprecedented in
many ways. We haven't really seen
anything like this from this
administration or from anyone in the
Western universe. I want to talk about
where it's coming from. Either you
believe there was never a national
security risk to begin with or we just
put a price on national security. Now
Terry Haynes joined us about 5 10
minutes ago. He selected door number
three and he said this was always part
of a broader negotiation between the US
and China. This was always the goal.
>> Well, here's what I would say. If you
look at a letter in June from Matthew
Pottinger, who's the president's former
deputy national security adviser, he
outlines how concerning it would be to
the ch Chinese for the United States for
China and China's military to get their
hands again on Nvidia's H20. He says
they help China's critical AI ambitions.
It means less chips for the United
States. It says it will support China's
military and loosening these
restrictions weakens export controls
generally. The question I have is not
just how the United States is going to
be using this money, but who is next?
Will this now be a strategy going
forward this administration will do? Not
just carrot and stick approach with high
tariffs going up will lessen the tariff
load if you invest United States, but
instead if you want to play, you are
going to have to give us part of that
profit. We'll come back to this story in
just a moment. Just wanted to draw your
attention to the bond market. Yields
lower at the front end of the curve down
by a basis point or two on a 2-year to
about 375. Some Fed speak over the
weekend came from Governor Mickey Bowman
calling for three rate cuts this year
saying easing policy should prevent
further erosion in the labor market. The
comments following the latest Fed
meeting where both Bowman and of course
Governor Waller dissented.
>> So I think you can view this as two
ways. one, she really maybe wants that
job and now sees more names being added
to the list like James Bullard over the
weekend from the W wall Wall Street
Journal. She's thinking, I'm going to
double down. I'm not just talking about
a rate cut in September. I want three
rate cuts before the new year. But also,
the data right now is in her favor with
the weakening labor market. This is why
the next two CPI prints are going to be
so important, Jonathan, after the ISM
services really saw potentially
stagflation undermining in the economy.
The divide at the Fed I think is pretty
clear right now and it's around the dual
mandate full employment price stability
and which side of that dual mandate are
you choosing to prioritize at the
moment. So Governor Bowman over the
weekend we should focus on risk to our
employment mandate one. Here's another
one. The Fed president Muslim saying
this. We are missing on our inflation
target. We are not missing on our
employment mandate. And that's going to
be the big debate by the time we get to
the middle of September.
>> Absolutely. And what will we see in the
economy by September? Goldman Sachs this
morning. I was really struck by this
note and some of the numbers they put
out with it. The fact that they are
saying we have yet to see the tariff
impact. Right now they say consumers in
the United States have absorbed an
estimated 22% of tariff costs through
June, but their share will rise to 67%
if the latest tariffs follow the pattern
of levies in previous years. What does
that mean? Potentially higher inflation.
Andrew Honhorse the city just moments
away about 10 minutes away calling for
five consecutive rate cuts starting in
September. Let's send back to our top
story. Nvidia AMD agreeing to pay a card
of AI chip sales in China for export
licenses. Bloomberg's Wendy Benjaminson
joined us now from Washington. Wendy,
the team's been on top of this over the
weekend and overnight. What have we
learned and how surprised were you by
the latest developments?
>> Well, we were very surprised here in
Washington to to see this development
happen. the idea, as you both have
noted, of paytoplay, of if you want to
sell your chips to China, national
security, you know, don't worry about
it, just give me 15%. I mean, the the
Trump is looking for revenue from um
everywhere he can. That's sort of what's
behind the tariff uh the tariff regime
and also his notion of, you know, um
everything is transactional. So if they
if you want to you know if you want to
lower your tariffs you pay you know you
do something you promise to invest in
the United States. Tim Cook brought what
a gold iPhone and some other you know
chachkis to um to Trump in the white
house and suddenly got a break on
tariffs. Uh Wayne was in the White House
the other day and got this deal to sell
the Nvidia chips. So this is just part
of the pattern that we've been seeing
over and over again and we will you know
see it in in every aspect of of you know
of Trump's presidency.
>> Wendy, do you get the sense that it's
unique to these companies to AMD to
Nvidia or is there more to come?
>> It is at the moment but there is more to
come. As you noted the Intel CEO is in
town today is meeting at the White House
with Donald Trump. So we'll see what
comes out of that. And you know, we have
all these other trade negotiations going
on, uh, you know, with Canada, with
Mexico, with all these countries. You
know, Scott Besson said over the weekend
that he hoped all the trade deals would
be wrapped up by October. And for that
to happen, there's got to be some sort
of deal making like this because in
normal situations, as we've said before,
trade deals take months, if not years,
to work out. But if you want to work him
out quickly, give Donald Trump a
percentage of your of your profits.
>> Wendy, appreciate the update.
Bloomberg's Wendy Benjaminson out of
Washington DC this morning. To build on
this, the former senior White House
trade adviser Kellyanne Shaw joins us
now for more. Kellyanne, welcome. It's
something we've explored over the last
40 minutes or so. Whether this is a
unique case for AMD or Nvidia or a brand
new playbook that we'll see more of in
the not too distant future.
>> Good morning. Thanks so much for having
me back on. Now, of course, what's new
about this is not the fact that the
administration is allowing sales of H20
chips to China. What's new is this
concept of taking 15% of the profits or
or some amount. We don't know exactly
yet what that is or how this will work
in terms of operationalizing it. And so,
it is very unique. This is obviously a
president who does not play by the
standard rule book. He very much takes
approaches that are outside the box and
novel. And so looking at export controls
in this new way, while it's surprising,
I guess the fact that they're doing it
this in in terms of something novel is
not what's surprising.
>> Kellyanne, have we ever seen anything
like this before?
>> No, I I mean, not to our knowledge. This
is a very uh unique approach. I mean,
there had been a tremendous amount of uh
consternation and question in Washington
about the H20 uh export controls in the
first place. Were they part of the China
deal? Were they national security? Are
they being traded away? Like what does
this mean? And so this new element of
this 15% of the profits is really
highlighting how transactional the
administration is. And this is a
president who's willing to uh take
different approaches to all sorts of
problems like trade negotiations, uh
trying to incentivize companies to
invest in the United States. And now
here he's saying, "Okay, I'll let you
sell your technology to China, but I'm
going to take a chunk of of your profits
for doing so." This is something we've
never seen before.
>> What does this nugget mean in terms of
the deal that's set to expire tomorrow,
>> so we don't totally know, but I will say
having watched the phase 1 deal play out
during Trump 1.0, there's a lot
happening behind the scenes. So, we had
the president tweeting or truth posting
overnight about the need for soybeans
and China's dependence on soybeans. He's
previously talked about aerospace, the
fact that China needs our engines and
our planes to fly for their military.
Um, we are obviously relying on Chinese
rare earth magnets and a number of other
critical minerals and now we have these
export controls in the mix. And I think
that there is a broader set of issues
that was part of that framework
negotiated in London that we just don't
totally have visibility into. And this
may be one of the chits being played
behind the scenes and we now have about
18 hours before those 100% tariffs and
higher go back into effect. So clearly
there's a lot of horse trading happening
behind the scenes right now.
>> You mentioned the president's truth on
soybeans. He said, "I hope China will
quickly quadruple its soybean orders.
This is also a way of substantially
reducing China's trade deficit with the
USA." You were there for this exact
deal. Where are we in terms of that
phase one agreement?
Yeah, and this is something that
Secretary Bessant talked about going
into the Sweden meetings about whether
or not the United States was going to
enforce those purchasing commitments
that were part of the broader frame or a
phase one deal. And he said that they
would be talking about it. So clearly
this is something that's on the
president's mind. Farmers are the tip of
the spear when it comes to these USChina
relationships. We have a lot of national
security concerns including export
controls, but farmers are the ones that
tend to get hit first in terms of this
retaliation. So the president is
definitely putting on the table quite
publicly what he sees as something that
China can do to sweeten the deal.
>> And Kellyanne, other enforcement
mechanisms that you think we need to
rethink this time around that didn't
work last time around?
>> Well, the the only enforcement mechanism
contemplated under that phase one deal
was tariffs. And it was this idea that
if China doesn't comply with its both
purchasing commitments as well as some
of these substantive commitments that
we're just going to tariff them and
ratchet those tariff rates back up. Here
what we have is a second prong of
enforcement and that's export controls.
And that's new. That's why you have so
many China hawks in Washington concerned
about the fact that export controls can
be loosened and tightened as part of a
compliance program versus the pure
national security concerns that we're
used to seeing export controls be used
for. So now the president has two lanes.
He can either ratchet up tariffs or he
can tighten or loosen export controls.
>> Kellyanne, appreciate the reaction. The
former senior White House trade adviser,
Kellyanne Shaw, just 24 hours out from
the latest deadline.
>> And this deadline it likely seems. And
this is what the Treasury Secretary has
basically insinuated. It is going to be
extended potentially though. This is why
you see the truth from the president. He
knows that this agre this this deadline
is tomorrow and he wants to make sure
that China is back in focus and he's
looking for potentially more of a grand
bargain kind of agreement. Security
concerns like chips, soybeans, all of it
on the table.
>> If you're just joining us, welcome to
the program. Looking ahead to CPI
tomorrow morning, 8:30 Eastern time,
Tuesday morning. Before we get to that,
a lot to work out in trade in this
market, too. Equity futures positive by
about a tenth of 1% with an update on
stories worldwide with your Bloomberg
brief. Back with us, here's Yahihara.
Hey yhara.
>> Hi John. As you guys were talking about,
President Trump hopes China will
quadruple its soybean orders just a day
before the trade truce between the two
countries expires. The soybean push
comes as US farmers are just weeks away
from their next harvest. As of late
July, US government data showed China
has refrained from booking any cargos
for the upcoming season as those trade
tensions linger. Meanwhile, Israeli
Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu is
defending his plans to seize Gaza's city
despite being met with opposition at
home and abroad. Netanyahu says it's
needed to quote complete the job to
defeat Hamas and free its hostages. this
as the country faces global condemnation
over the growing humanitarian crisis in
Gaza. And President Trump will hold a
news conference today at 10:00 a.m.
Eastern to lay out his ideas for ending
violent crime in the nation's capital.
Trump says his plan will include moving
out homeless people who camp along the
city streets. The president's powers
though are limited by a home rule law
passed back in 1973. That's your
Bloomberg brief. John
>> Yhara, thank you. More from Yhara in
about 30 minutes time. Up next on the
program, the labor market on thin ice.
>> I think the the labor market are on very
thin ice. If you look at uh the breath
of employment growth, it's basically at
stall speed. And you know, there's also
additional weakness in the pipeline.
>> In just a moment, we'll catch up with
Andrew Hunhorse of City live from New
York City. You're watching Bloomberg TV.
Equity
[Music]
futures positive by a tenth of 1%
building on last week's gains on the
NASDAQ 100. Record highs coming into
this trading week just about unchanged
so far this morning. Under surveillance
this morning, the labor market on thin
ice. I think the the labor market are on
very thin ice. If you look at uh the
breadth of employment growth, it's
basically at stall speed. And you know,
there's also additional weakness in the
pipeline. There's more downside ahead.
If companies generally speaking are a
little bit more concerned about their
demand demand outlook, they're not going
to be hiring as much or investing as
much.
>> Here's the latest this morning. Economic
data out this week in focus as Fed
Governor Bowman calls for three rate
cuts this year. Andrew Honhorse of City
expecting even more in 2026. Expecting
continued softening in labor markets and
officials to cut 25 basis points at each
of the next five meetings. Andrew joins
us now for more. Andrew, good morning.
>> Morning.
>> Have we got a labor market on ice? On
thin ice?
>> You know, there's been something very
uncomfortable about this labor market
for some time, which is that the hiring
rate has been very low. So, the
unemployment rate is low also. That's
usually a good sign. But when you look
at the demand for workers, it's just
soft out there. And you see new workers
that are coming into the labor market,
new college graduates having trouble
getting a job. So I think we've had this
weakness that's been there below the
surface. It's been a lot of the in a lot
of the details of the data. Now we see
it in the headlines.
>> The split on the FOMC is pretty clear at
the moment over at the Federal Reserve.
Governor Bowman over the weekend saying
we should focus on the risk of the
employment mandate. I'm sure you agree.
The Fed President Muslim saying this,
we're missing on our inflation target.
We're not missing on our employment
mandate. How do you think they're going
to settle this dispute, this debate in a
few weeks time?
>> Yeah, I think that's where Musulum and
the committee were in July. That's why
there wasn't a rate cut in July. I think
where they're going to end up being in
September. Remember, we have more data
including the CPI report this week
between now and then. But where they'll
end up in September is saying that that
these risks have become more balanced.
So you have upside risk to inflation.
You're missing on the inflation target.
Not by a lot. we were 2.5% core
inflation in the second quarter. So
you're not too far above your inflation
target. Um on the other hand,
employment, yes, the unemployment rate
is right around levels that would be
consistent with full employment, but you
have these downside risks. So if you
have balanced risks, where should policy
rates be? They should be at neutral. And
does the committee think they're at
neutral? No, they think they're
restrictive. So it would make all the
sense in the world to cut in September.
When you look at the weakness in hiring,
doesn't that match though what corporate
America has been telling us, which is
that basically everything is frozen at
the moment because they were still
waiting on some actuality of policy from
Washington.
>> Yeah, I tariffs may be playing into this
and uncertainty about policy may be
playing into this, but it is a trend
that we saw emerging even last year with
this, you know, weak hiring. Um, I think
you have seen that increasingly be the
case this year. we've seen in the beige
book where firms are saying they're
really not excited about hiring to your
point and that they've pulled back on
these hiring plans. So some of that
coming through in the data now.
>> Well, let's go back to that data point a
few Fridays ago. Was that evidence of
weaker demand or a supply side
phenomenon that's been building over the
last several months?
>> So this is what's so tricky about the
labor market data is that we know that
supply of workers has slowed down.
Immigration has slowed down. So you
don't know what is the the break even
level of payrolls. How much job creation
do you need to keep the unemployment
rate from moving higher? A point that
Chair Powell made, which I think was
kind of lost on a lot of people in in
the press conference a couple weeks ago,
is that it's still not great news if you
have a unemployment rate that's staying
low because you have weak demand, but
you also have weak supply. So, we do
have weakening in supply, we also have
weak demand. And I think what we're
seeing most recently is that that that
demand side is starting to dominate.
>> Well, let's pick up on that. Okay,
there's evidence of weaker demand. Is
there evidence of increasing slack which
is the more important feature of this
conversation for the FOMC when they get
together in the middle of September?
>> So this is the classic problem of
econometrics is how do you disentangle
demand from supply and one way that you
do it is by looking at prices. You look
at wages and you say is there a lot of
wage pressure that's building out there?
No. Wages have slowed. So the fact that
wages are slowing are telling you that
there's not an issue with lack of
supply.
>> Price pressure in focus tomorrow
morning. What are you and the team
looking for? We think we're going to see
something more in goods inflation. I
think that's the consensus also that
more of that's going to bubble through.
Um we have 0.29% month-on-month on core
CPI. That would round to 0.3. That's
where the consensus is. Um I think even
if you get a 0.4 if it's focused on
goods inflation, that's not too
concerning for Fed officials. What you
really don't want to see is this
broadening out and becoming a broader
inflation.
>> The White House rejected the labor
report and said the data wasn't reliant
when we saw the last NFP number. Do you
think this is going to be an issue when
it comes to CPI?
>> I I I don't think we're going to see the
same thing talked about for CPI because
you don't have those kinds of revisions
to CPI and really with the jobs report
the focus and right now
>> it's still the BLS. It's it's still the
same statistical agency. Look, at the
end of the day, these are the best
statistics that we have on the labor
market on inflation. We can talk about
whether there should be changes to the
methodology or not, ways to improve
things. Um but right now, these are the
best numbers we have.
>> So, you trust the numbers? We're going
to get them tomorrow. Goldman Sachs put
out this. Consumers in the US absorbed
20 22% of tariffs so far through June.
They say that's going to go up to 67%
when we have these new rates. How
concerning is that? And how much of a
pickle and a conundrums that put the Fed
in?
>> So, it does look like most of the
absorption of the tariff cost so far has
been by domestic firms and and not by
the consumer. Um, I wouldn't disagree
that more of this is going to bubble up
and we'll probably see more of this in
coming months. really haven't seen
anything in apparel yet for instance and
that could take a couple months before
we see that. Um optically it creates
some issues because you have some
stronger inflation prints and we might
see one of those this week. But again if
you think about the fundamental
economics of it what we should be
concerned about is do we have a
persistent uptick in inflation or does
this look more like a one-time rise in
the price of certain goods? The broader
dynamics in the economy are actually
disinflationary. We have a housing
sector that's in contraction. house
prices that are flat to down. You have
wages that have cooled. All of this
would tell you that price pressure
should be cooling. Um, yes, we're going
to see something more in goods, but I
wouldn't be particularly concerned about
>> Would you expect to see the offset
coming from services still in the months
to come?
>> I I I think if anything, we have
downside risk to services inflation, um,
shelter in particular.
>> Andrew Honhorse of City. Andrew,
appreciate your time. CPI inflation data
just about 24 hours away, 8:30 Eastern
time, setting the stage for the big
debate taking place at the Federal
Reserve in September. Before we get
there, of course, they've got one more
stop in Jackson Hole.
>> Exactly. And I think Jackson Hole has
become so much more important now
because you want to hear where Jay
Powell is when it comes to the diverging
news and more individuals lining up with
the double denters, the likes of Neil
Qashqari and others saying we there is
concern. Lisa Cook, there is concern
when it comes to this label market.
Every time there's push back, you know
what I hear and what everyone else
hears, they're running.
>> They're in the running to become the
next Fed chair. Where are we in that
race?
>> Well, in that race, we also had more
names added to the list. Former Fed
Governor James Bullard is apparently
under consideration according to the
Wall Street Journal. It does seem like
the Treasury Secretary is taken out. So,
it's the Kevin, this the two Kevin. Um,
we do have Myerin now joining the board.
That's going to help them out. Um, and
potentially James Bullard now as a name.
And then of course Governor Waller and
maybe now Mickey Bowman is trying to
push ahead adding I actually want three
rate cuts before the end of the year.
>> It's a few names in the mix before we
get to year end. Coming up next on this
program in the second hour of Bloomberg
Surveillance. We'll catch up with Peter
Oppenheimer of Goldman Sachs. We'll
speak to Henry Drae of Vader Partners.
The former Boston Fed president Eric
Rosen Grim will be joining us. Plus
David Rogel of Black Rockck. If you're
just joining us, welcome. Equities
coming into a brand new trading week.
very close or at alltime highs on the
S&P 500 on the NASDAQ 100 high once more
on the S&P by a tenth of 1% from New
York. You're watching Bloomberg TV.
[Music]
>> What we do need to be prepared for is
more volatility in the data.
>> There's more downside ahead.
>> The consumer doesn't feel good right
now. What matters is what's going on in
the rest of the inflation basket.
>> It's a risk and it can certainly
complicate things for the Fed.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and
An Marie Hordern.
>> Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning. The second
hour of Bloomberg Surveillance starts
right now. And your week ahead looks
like this. Tomorrow morning, 8:30
Eastern time. Inflation data in focus.
throughout the week. More economic data.
Jobless claims on Thursday retail sales
going into the weekend and in between
squeezed in between a deadline between
the US and China and the current trade
truce. For the equity market at the
moment coming into a brand new trading
week at all-time highs and adding just a
little bit more weight to it this
morning, up by tenth of 1% on the S&P
500, up a similar amount on the NASDAQ
100. On the NASDAQ, two names in focus,
Nvidia and AMD in the pre-market. If you
want to play in China, you've got to
pay.
>> Exactly. And this is according to a
Financial Times report that basically
the Trump administration is saying if
you want the export licenses to have the
H20 or the MI30 away from AMD go to
China, you're going to have to put 15%
of those revenues, give them back to the
US government. Now, this is very
unprecedented. Everyone we've spoken to
has been unable to give us another time
and place in history where this has
happened. or as Kelly and Shaw who was
in negoti at the negotiating table with
China during the first Trump
administration said it's a unique
approach a diplomatic constructive way
of looking at what we're seeing right
now
>> those names down just a little bit
Nvidia down by 0.6% 6% AMD down by
something like 1.7% so far this morning.
We keep going back to the same question.
Is this unique to those two names or are
we going to see more of this in the next
few months?
>> We don't know yet. But if the Trump
administration is successful when it
comes to AMD and Nvidia, what's that?
They won't do this with other names. Why
wouldn't they? They have used this
carrot and stick approach time and again
when it comes to tariffs, high tariff
walls. Okay, we'll lessen your tariffs
if you invest in the United States.
We've seen this with a number of
companies. Build here. Bring your
manufacturing, your product here. Now
they're saying it different. If you want
to play in China, which we have issues
with, you're going to have to pay. What
I find more complicated for them in
Washington DC is going to be the push
back, not just from Democrats, from
within their own party. China hawks
saying, "You are putting revenue streams
over national security concern."
>> Mentioned this deadline between the US
and China a few times. Coming up fast,
the trade truce set to expire in the
next 24 hours. Most people just assume
that's going to continue. We'll get an
extension of 90 days. I keep wondering
why we haven't seen the extension just
yet. I remember that extra round of
talks between Secretary Besson and the
Chinese delegation and he came out of it
and basically said it's up to the
president to decide whether we get an
extension. Well, here we are. What are
we waiting for?
>> I guess the president or secretary
Bessant was giving the president maximum
optionality when it comes to when he
wanted to pull the trigger. Maybe there
was still some things that needed to be
discussed between Beijing and
Washington. But when I spoke to the
Treasury Secretary before he went to
those talks, he said it was likely that
we're going to have this 90-day truce
have an extension, another 90 days. All
of this potentially leading up, in my
view, reading some of the tea leaves and
reports out of Beijing, a meeting
between Trump and Xi Jinping. They've
invited him to China, but potentially
they can also meet on the sidelines of
the Apex summit.
>> A few signs of fear in this market, both
in equities and in credit so far. record
highs techdriven rally in the equity
market on the S&P on the NASDAQ in high
yield credit tighter spreads throughout
the whole of last week. So following the
worst jobs print we've seen going back
to the pandemic. Every single day after
that, Monday through Friday, we had
tighter credit spreads. No sign of any
fear in this market right now. That's
for sure. Coming up this hour, Peter
Oppenheimer of Goldman Sachs as stocks
kick off a key week nearing all-time
highs. Henry trades evaded partners as
investors eye the looming trade deadline
with China. Plus, we'll catch up with
the former Boston Fed President Eric
Rosenrren with stackflation concerns
continue to rise. We begin this hour
with stocks near record highs as markets
await more clarification on the trade
story. Peter Oppenheimer of Goldman
Sachs writing, "It's possible the
tariffs could hurt equity prices even if
the US agrees on deals with key trading
partners." Peter joins us now for more.
Peter, welcome to the program, sir.
Before we talk about the risk, let's
talk about the price, the rally we've
seen on both sides of the Atlantic on
the S&P and the Euro Stocks 50 of close
to something like 9%. Peter, when you
break things down, let's just talk about
breadth. Compare and contrast the story
in the United States to the story you're
witnessing in Europe.
>> Well, very different story. At one
level, it looks very similar. As you
said, both markets are rising, but
they're rising in different ways. The
contributions are quite different. In
the US, very much driven again by the
power of the biggest tech stocks, which
are really leading the market. As you
say, S&P is at an all-time high. the
median stock is around 12% below its uh
52 week high. So very very concentrated
whereas in Europe actually there's
significant breadth uh unusual breadth
actually in the market um and uh you're
you're seeing much much less
concentration
uh although of course you are seeing and
have seen um stocks that are
disappointing being very heavily
punished and that's happened on both
sides of the Atlantic. So Peter, let's
just pick up on the US tech story and
the narrow breadth that I've heard so
much about, I'm sure you have as well,
whether it is necessarily unhealthy. If
I think about the dominant risks at the
moment, they're largely cyclical.
They're related to trade. And in many
ways, some people might look at the US
stock market and say that's a source of
stability, not necessarily downside
risk. Pete, how would you counter that?
Look, I think it's right that you know
if we step back and think about
economies which are still growing albeit
at a slower pace certainly in the US but
interest rates coming down that's
broadly a supportive environment for
risk assets and the fact that in the US
the tech uh heavy uh largest companies
have been dominating the rally is a
function of their very very powerful
continued profit growth. It's not been
about speculation. It's really been
about very very strong fundamentals and
there's nothing wrong with that. The
only problem of course is that as you
get an increasingly concentrated market,
it becomes harder to diversify risks at
least domestically. And that's one of
the reasons why we've been arguing that
investors should take a more open mind
uh uh view of diversification
geographically to improve risk adjusted
returns.
>> Well, Peter, where is the opportunities
in Europe? Because I'm looking at the
Bank of America fund manager survey out
of Europe and they say European
investors 35% expect stronger European
growth over the coming 12 months but it
was 44% last month. So isn't that
European story actually starting to
dwindle a little bit?
Yeah, and we've seen that to some extent
in the relative performance very much
the first part of the year Europe
outperforming both in terms of
underlying assets but also on a dollar
adjusted basis as the dollar weakened
and that that uh difference has
moderated to some extent but I think it
is right to say that from a very low
base European growth is improving
somewhat and an important driver of that
is the expansion of fiscal policy coming
from Germany.
Uh and we do also have a couple of other
themes that are uh encouraging interest
particularly increased defense spending
uh which is powering ahead more
infrastructure spending across Europe
and also some of the value areas of the
market which are doing really very well.
Banks being a perfect example and I
would say that is another difference
between Europe and the US. The US is
still being driven by growth dominated
themes particularly related to
technology whereas in Europe and some
other markets value is actually
outperforming.
>> The risk of tariffs though still exist
and the team at Goldman Sachs had a no
doubt about how the impact has yet to
hit consumer prices when it comes to
tariffs that hit is just getting
started. What could this mean for Europe
and some European corporate names?
Well, I think that it does complicate
the picture because we haven't yet seen
the full effect of tariffs on either
side of the Atlantic and it is likely to
weigh on uh consumer confidence to some
extent and the ability for consumers to
continue to drive economic growth and
we're already seeing some evidence of
that slowing particularly in the US and
alongside it some weakness in the labor
market. The offset I think is that you
will see lower rates at least in the US.
We think for the ECB they're done for
now. They've already cut rates uh more
aggressively. Uh and I think there's
less room for that to continue uh given
that we're going to see some effect of
tariffs still yet to come through.
Peter, you mentioned the rally we've
seen in US tech validated by the
earnings. The earnings have been really
powerful. I believe you said the same
thing for the banks and the runup we've
seen in Europe. This rally of more than
40% for European banks. so far year
today has it been justified also by the
earnings you've seen so far and the
outlook coming from the seauite
>> yeah very much so uh and we have to
emphasize that this is a huge turnaround
from the trend that we saw really for a
decade after the financial crisis where
banks came under huge pressure
particularly in Europe they had to
delever raise capital cut dividends and
although they were cheap in terms of
multiple they kept on underperforming
but we've seen a dramatic change in
circumstances. Now they have strong
balance sheets. Uh you mentioned earlier
that the credit cycle is benign and more
confidence in the economy means less
risk of loan losses and credit losses
and provisionings for the banks and we
have steeper yield curves which are very
supportive of their profits. So in
Europe the uh very powerful returns that
we've been seeing in banks is justified
by very strong fundamentals just as the
technology uh companies have been
supported by fundamentals in the US. Can
we just touch on the rates backdrop for
Europe? For a long long time they
complained about negative interest
rates. We got away from that. Now it
feels like rates have started to come
back down again Peter and maybe they
don't stop at two. Perhaps they don't
stop at one. How important is the rate
outlook for the long story on banks?
I think the most critical uh factor is
going to be growth. Um if we avoid
recession, that would be our central
view. Uh then the risk of a provisioning
cycle that could be damaging for
earnings is moderated. Uh of course
what's been very helpful for the banks
and this has been true in many regions
particularly in Europe is that yield
curves have steepened. We've seen
already a lot of progress on short rate
cutting by the ECB. uh but long rates
have been edging up partly driven by
growing deficits and spending
particularly in Germany and that spread
has been very helpful for banks. It may
moderate a little bit moving forwards
but I think if we continue to get
economic growth the outlook is still
reasonably benign for the banking sector
in Europe. Peter Oppenheimer of Goldman
Sachs. Peter appreciate your time as
always the difference between the US and
and Europe right now. Amarie keeps going
back to this story from Yan Hatius and
Goldman Sachs the investment bank here
states side and what's going to happen
with tariffs and ultimately who's going
to pay the costs who's going to have to
shoulder carry some of this this from
Goldman consumers in the US have
absorbed an estimated 22% of tariff
costs through June that share according
to Hatius and the team will rise to 67%
American businesses have eaten a lot of
this so far taking around 64% of the hit
from tariffs they believe that share is
going to fall to less than 10% in the
months to come so this story is not
over. Watch this space.
>> It's certainly not over. And this is why
the Fed is in this conundrum. And this
is why individuals are concerned that
potentially what you could see is or as
Cameron Dawson talked about it,
stagflationary light environment. And
this is going to be really challenging
for the Fed. If you have they think they
have a weakening labor market, but say
we get hotter CPI prints. What do you do
with that kind of data to make sure that
you have your dual mandate basically
working against each other? It might be
a story for later on in Q3 going into
Q4. Equity futures this morning positive
by about a tenth of 1% on the S&P with
an update on stories elsewhere this
morning with your Bloomberg brief.
Here's Yhier and how you hi John. We
start with our top story. Shares of
Nvidia and AM AMD are trading lower in
the pre-market after the chip makers cut
an unprecedented deal to pay 15% of
their China AI chip sales to the US
government. The agreement will allow
them to export licenses to the country
and reflects President Trump's effort to
engineer a financial payout for America
in return for concessions on trade.
Meanwhile, the price of lithium is
spiking this morning. The surge comes
after battery giant Contemporary Amperex
Technology halted operations at a major
mine in China. That's spurring
speculation that Beijing might move to
suspend other projects as it tackles
over capacity across its economy. And
AMC shares are surging 5.5% in the
pre-market after the entertainment
company reported second quarter results
that beat estimates. Revenue for the
quarter came in at 36% higher than the
same period last year, showing strong
consumer enthusiasm for this year's
lineup of movies. Movie theater
attendance also rose 26% compared to
last year at just under 63 million
people. That's your Bloomberg brief.
John
>> Yhara, thank you. More from Yhara later
this hour. Up next, quit proquo in
China.
>> The H20 was the third best chip in the
world. The president has decided that
the Chinese can buy them, but that's in
a balanced way with the Chinese
delivering on the deal that we made with
them. In just a few minutes, we'll get
the view from Washington DC. We'll catch
up with Henrietta Trace of Vader
Partners live from New York City this
morning. Good morning.
[Music]
Stocks are positive, up by 0.1% on the
S&P, up by a tenth of 1% on the NASDAQ
100 and Sylvanas this morning. Quidd
proquo in China.
>> The H20 was the third best chip in the
world and now it's the fourth best. the
president has decided that if things are
going well with China that they can buy
them. So I think that decision's been
made. We are putting on the licensing
mechanism and uh we are getting that
going. But the president has decided
that the Chinese can buy them. But
that's in a balanced way with the
Chinese delivering on the deal that we
made with them and they're delivering
rare earths.
>> Well, here's the latest this morning.
sources telling us here at Bloomberg
that Nvidia and AMD have agreed to pay
the US government 15% of their revenues
from AI chip sales in China in order to
secure export licenses. Bloomberg's
Wendy Benjaminson joined us now for the
latest in Washington DC. Wendy back
welcome back and just to go back to the
top of a story once again. I think we
keep exploring the same theme whether
ultimately we've just put a price on
national security or whether for this
topic and this topic specifically maybe
the national security rationale was
misleading to begin with.
>> It's entirely possible. Um, we do know
that Trump runs a sort of pay-for-play
operation and as as the commerce
secretary just said in that clip that
they've just the administration has
decided that China can buy those chips,
but that comes at a 15% cost to Nvidia
and AMD. Um, so it's it's a
unprecedented as far as we can tell so
far transaction. I mean, I certainly
don't remember anything like this in,
you know, many years, and I'm sure you
don't either. Um, and it's it's just
part of this. If you if you are nice to
me, I will give you a job in the
administration. If you are, you know,
loyal to me, I will endorse your
campaign. If you pay me 15%, you can
sell your chips in China. It's all part
of, you know, it's all part and parcel
of the the approach this administration
takes.
>> And not seeing the stocks get hit too
hard this morning. Wendy, thank you.
Nvidia's down by about 6/10 of 1%. AMD a
little bit softer. Certainly something
we haven't seen before here. Stay side.
Henry Trader Partners joins us now for
more. Henrieta, can you think of another
example of something like this playing
out in your lifetime?
>> You know, certainly not at BIS. Wendy
points it out. Exactly. There's not
another example like this. I think the
most interesting way to look at this is
to see the president sort of expanding
out beyond something that was a very
real uh concern for him on Friday. If
you followed his true social post, it
was very much about these court cases
that are pending around the AIPA
tariffs. So, if the president is going
to be stripped of his authority to
impose tariffs via, is he giving himself
some sort of additional leverage point
with export controls and selling them to
effectively the basic way of just
getting trade flowing and having some
sort of card to play with China. I think
that's an interesting angle to think
about. Um, I think the AIPA court case
story is the most critical here and the
president obviously was focused on that
on Friday and then this announcement
makes sense in that context.
>> Henrietta, if you're in a seauite of a
massive American company and you see
what's playing out right now with Nvidia
and AMD, is this a new risk that you
need to contend with that potentially if
you want to export your products to to
outside the United States, you might
have to pay the US government? I I think
it's completely stands to reason and
every single one of these trade deals
has some sort of pay mint component and
what happens is we get these original
announcements and then they get
materially walked back. So this one's
pretty cut and dry 15% in the event that
that's where it lands. But think about
the Japan deal for example. The White
House said that's $550 billion worth of
investment that's going to flow to the
United States and we get 90% of the
returns. But the reality is that only 11
billion dollar of that $500 billion that
Japan committed to is going to come from
the Japan bank. Everything else is going
to come from private sector that you
have no control over. So there are these
big numbers floated and then they're
almost always revised. Uh another
example um to give you another one John
would be the the gold tariffs that are
happening right now. This you know sort
of rampant confusion before there's an
ultimate clarity is really the
prevailing theme of this administration.
>> Okay. But when you're talking about pay
components when it comes to other trade
negotiators, it's about investing in the
United States because that means money
and jobs. Jobs for Americans coming into
the United States. This is purely about
just paying some of your profit streams
for chips that at one point you already
sending to China to the US government.
How is this in line with what the Trump
administration and the campaign ran on?
>> Well, it's definitely not consistent at
all. either there was a national
security threat exposed to these chip
sales, which is something that we've
been dealing with for at least a decade,
or you can just pay your way around it
and it's no longer a national security
threat. They are two mutually exclusive
developments. Um, and I think again it
goes back to the president needing more
chips in the China negotiations because
for example the export of US soy and
agriculture goods is down 15 50% in just
the last 6 months dropped from like 11.5
billion worth of sales to 5 and a half.
The president needs more ammunition and
if he can somehow create a reliance
which is what we've heard from the
Nvidia CEO on US chip sales then that
gives him additional leverage perhaps
down the line but it is definitely
mutually exclusive to the n national
security argument.
>> How much leverage do they have right now
Henrier? I think that's worth exploring.
If you look at the Chinese export
numbers they seem to be doing okay. The
export numbers are up. The exports are
just going to other places. Is this
important to them in the same way it was
maybe 6 months ago, maybe several years
ago, four or five years ago?
>> Yeah, absolutely. And this is what you
always have heard from China very
consistently. The United States is a
bully. Come do business with us. We're
seeing it operate in Africa right now.
Um, and the EU and other nations in the
Southeast Asian region. And one of the
things to be mindful of as we get into
this is that the president has
threatened 145% tariffs. 80% would be
the rate that goes into effect on August
12th if they don't reach a day tant. But
China plainly has the president in a
corner around magnets and rare earths
that debilitate the automobile and
defense sectors in one fell swoop. So
the the reason that the 90-day pause is
the base case on the street is because
the president threatened too much and
he's not going to get it. We don't have
the capacity for that. Goldman's coming
out with, you know, 67% inflation hike
to the US consumer and and prices being
passed on. We do not have that ability
right now. It's the same reason, not to
go to too many places, but the same
reason you're not seeing the Russia
sanctions go into effect. You cannot
mess with oil and gas prices when we
have this risk of inflation coming.
>> What would be helpful is if the
Europeans and other trade partners got
on side with the United States to put
the pressure on China, to put the
pressure on other trade partners. Enri,
do you see those pieces coming together
anytime soon?
>> I don't. And think about what we have
pending. You got section 232
pharmaceutical tariffs, automobiles,
automobile parts, semiconductor chips,
all those outstanding components. And
the EU is not at all thrilled with the
deal that was reached a couple weeks
back with the United States. So that
that block is fractured to the point
where we don't even have legally binding
tax and we might not for months now. So
I don't see that coming around. Uh we we
don't have Canada even, you know. So I
think we're quite a ways away. What kind
of weight does the US have when it goes
to Brussels and say really put the
screws to China given the fact that now
the United States is saying well
actually we'll send some chips that we
thought were national security concern
but you just have to give us some of the
profit.
>> You know this is really the underlining
issue that all of our trading partners
has had. Who is the ultimate decider?
Where is the line in the sand? What are
we even negotiating? And that's been a
consistent theme that we've seen from
Japan and Korea and the EU is what what
is it that we can offer? what can we
commit to and write into legally binding
text on our end that we can then go and
operate with around the world and that's
not something that they have any ability
to even get in the room at a in a timely
manner to have that conversation. Uh and
there are so many outstanding issues and
I would just say one more time here the
market is not a this inflation is not a
oneanddone situation. We're still going
to get lumber tariffs on Canada on top
of the ones that the president put into
effect on Friday. We still have
outstanding sectoral tariff risks with
all of these major trading partners from
Switzerland to Ireland. Um there there's
no certainty here and I don't have any
reason to think that that would end in
the next three years.
>> Just briefly, how much money is coming
in in the meantime, Henreda? Just how
much we taking in month-on-month at the
moment?
>> I think last I saw was $27 billion a
month. So ultimately this is a $2.7
trillion revenue razor that the United
States consumer pays for and the
inflation numbers are going to get
compounded because again this is not a
oneanddone event. Tariffs have increased
at least a dozen times just in the last
6 months and there are at nine on the
horizon just in the sectoral tariffs
without even getting into 301's on
Brazil or the AIPA tariffs and whether
or not those can be maintained and then
we're going to throw export control
restrictions on top. There's a long way
to go. Hera trace a VA partners.
Henreda, thank you. Thank you very much.
A lot of money coming in. Some debate
about what to do with it.
>> Well, yeah. And I think when you look at
what this administration is trying to do
is they want this external revenue
service basically bureau to try to bring
down the deficit. A lot big question
about money coming in potentially from
these chips. What are they going to use
it for?
>> Up next on the program, we'll catch up
with the former Boston Fed President
Eric Rosenrren on the risk of
stagflation. Plus, Yhara Arnand with
your morning movers. AMC trading high in
the pre-market as consumers head back to
the movie theaters.
[Music]
Remember that jobs report a lifetime
ago? Since then, the best week since
June in the equity market, all-time
highs and in high yield credit spreads
tighter, tighter, tighter for five
consecutive days every single trading
day through last week. This morning,
equity futures positive by a tenth of 1%
adding some weight to the rally on the
NASDAQ 100 just about positive. Also,
two hours away from the opening bound
with your morning movers. Here's Yahra.
Hey yra.
>> Hi, John. We start with Intel getting a
bid here up 1.7% as the Wall Street
Journal reports that Intel CEO Lip
Bhutan will meet with President Trump at
the White House today with Tan in a
delicate position as President Trump
calls for him to resign over his ties to
China. So, not only is this company in a
tough position as it's missed out in the
AI chip boom, now it's caught in the
crosshairs of this Trump administration.
And the natural question now is whether
Intel will commit more money to its US
investments. And get out your popcorn
because AMC results are out and they
were strong. So, you are seeing the
stock pop nearly 10% here. Results
showed a 35% jump year-over-year in
admissions revenue as audiences keep
returning to theaters. Despite all those
media companies spending so big on their
streaming, people still want to go to
the theater. And while they're there,
they are spending with food and drinks
with that category up 36%
year-over-year. So consumers still w
willing to spend on $10 on a bag of
popcorn. And we're sticking on this
theme. We are seeing Warner Brothers
Discovery up one and a half% after their
horror film Weapons topped the domestic
box office this weekend. And this marks
Warner Brothers seventh number one debut
this year. And according to ComCore,
overall US box office revenue hit more
than 130 million for the weekend. That
pushes the yearly total up 7.5%
from last year, echoing the strength we
heard from AMC. John,
>> it's good to see Yahara. Thank you.
Thank you very much. Very good to see. I
think we even got Amarie into a movie
theater, didn't we? Yeah, I did.
>> In the past few months. Nice.
>> I went to go see Mission Impossible.
First time in 5 years
>> about. Yeah.
>> How would you know? But I didn't really
I didn't really enjoy the movie, but you
know, now you know it's nice to get out.
>> It's good to see you encouraged. Get out
there, spend some money, support the US
economy. On our radar this morning, the
government striking a deal with
chipmakers. Sources telling us here at
Bloomberg, Nvidia and AMD agreed to pay
15% of their revenues from Chinese AI
chip sales to the US in order to secure
export licenses. Those two names trading
slightly lower so far this morning.
>> So, this one was a real surprise. I
mean, how many times can we say this is
unprecedented? This is highly un
unusual. You put it best, paying to
play. And this whole saga is interesting
to me because these chips that they're
now going to be making money off of, the
US government first deemed were unable
to or unwilling should not be sent to
China because of national security
concerns. They said this was helping the
Chinese military. Then they use them as
a chip, a negotiating tool to get those
rare earth magnets from China. And now
they're saying to the companies, well,
we're going to give you back the
licenses, which we know you can make
billions of dollars off of China, but we
need to get profit from this. I think
what what's interesting about this story
is what happens next. Who next could
potentially be one of those companies
that the US government is going to call
and say, "You need our help with
something. Well, you're going to have to
give us some of the revenue."
>> Still waiting for chip tariffs, aren't
we?
>> What's happening with that?
>> Well, what's interesting about the
sectoral tariffs when it comes to
semiconductors is President Trump came
out last week and said it's going to be
100%. Shock and awe moment. Tim Cook
standing next to him. 100% fine print.
You know that little aster asterisk.
Unless you invest in the United States.
Now all these semiconductor companies
have some money investment in the United
States. So guess what? They're not going
to have a semiconductor tariff.
>> We'll get to Tim Cook and Appleo a
little bit later in the program. 8:15.
We'll catch up with Dan Ives of Wedbush.
Look out for that conversation. Wanted
to turn to this story. Lithium prices
and stocks spiking after CL halted
operations at a major mine in China.
This coming after weeks of speculation
that authorities wouldn't extend the
mind's license. The move sparking
concerns that Beijing might suspend
other projects as well.
>> So, this comes that we have this supply
glut and it has been exacerbated by
demand headwinds for EVs, especially
given even the Trump administration
rolling back some of those incentives to
want to go buy an EV. I also view this
potentially as another moment of a tea
leaf when it comes to Beijing and
Washington. What has been consistent
from Treasury Secretary Scott Bessant is
what China's been doing in terms of
overcapacity and basically just flooding
the market, the US market, the European
market, etc. with cheap goods. Maybe
this is part of that agreement and the
talks that are happening behind the
scenes when it comes to these two
economies.
>> Possibly, but I think they'd prefer they
went to things like steel, things like
autos. There's a long long list of
things where this administration and
others because they agree with them
would like to see things happen on
Chinese over capacity and over
production.
>> Absolutely. But potentially maybe this
is an olive branch and a first step when
it comes to China. But again, this is
also just the fact that the demand just
isn't there at this moment because of
the headwinds facing that EV market.
>> That's the latest between the US and
China. I wanted to turn to the latest
between the US and Russia. President
Trump planning to meet with Russian
President Vladimir Putin in Alaska on
Friday. sources telling us here at
Bloomberg the European leaders are
hoping to talk to the president before
the meeting takes place
>> because the European leaders want to
make sure that they are saying to the US
president their concerns about what
potentially could be agreed upon and
there's been a number of discussions
even with JD Vance the vice president
sitting down with European counterparts
what comes of this we do not know we do
know that Trump though has gotten very
impatient with Vladimir Putin and to
that respect maybe this which is why the
Russians are willing to sit down. I
think for Putin and based off some
conversations I had with individuals who
watch Russia closely, this is a win-win.
If if you can get Zalinski to agree on
the territorial mapping that we have
right now, which is basically give up
the entire Donbas and Ukrainians need to
get Luhansk and Don, then that's a win
for Putin. If they don't, then Putin
just continues fighting. But he could
say, "I gave it a try."
>> It's one to watch later this week. That
story will kick off on Friday. Let's
turn back to the economy and the Federal
Reserve. Governor Mickey Bowman favoring
three interest rate cuts this year in a
speech produced over the weekend
promising to prioritize the labor side
of the dual mandate. Bloomberg's Mike
McKe joins us now for more. Mike, good
morning, sir.
>> Good morning, John. Well, Amarie was
saying a minute ago about talking about
all the unprecedented stuff that's
happened lately. This is precedented
because Nikki Bowman was one of the two
who desented at the last meeting. And
she's making the same argument that she
made before and the same argument that
Chris Waller is making that if you wait
too long to cut rates, the labor
market's going to collapse on you. She's
ready to cut rates three times before
the end of the year, saying a proactive
approach would help avoid a further
necessary erosion in labor market
conditions and reduce the chance the
committee will need to implement a
larger policy correction should the
labor market deteriorate. further.
That's the same argument, as I said,
that Chris Waller has made. Mary Daly
making a similar argument last week as
well. So, we're starting to get some
people turning in the direction of the
denters. Uh, we're looking at on board
to cut those three, not yet. Bastic,
Hammock, and Malum. Mousalum saying he's
still worried about prices a little bit
more than he is about the labor market.
And Cook and Collins last week saying
they're in the maybe camp. Now, of
course, we've got uh Steven Myron coming
on board, but uh I'm guessing he's not
going to be there for the September 17th
meeting. Not confirmed yet, but if he
was, that would be four people. The only
trouble is we may not have any descents
in September because if tomorrow's CPI
comes in relatively restrained, and we
continue to get some bad news on the
labor front, then the rest of the Fed is
probably going to be on board with at
least a cut in September. So, a lot of
ground to cover between now and then.
>> Mike McKe, thank you, sir. Let's build
on that. Joining us now, the former
Boston Fed President, Eric Rosenrren.
Eric, welcome back to the program, sir.
Some healthy debate at the Federal
Reserve. Let's call it what it is. It is
healthy. Do you think September is too
early to settle the debate?
>> I think it depends on how the data comes
in. Um, we have two CPI reports, one PCE
report and one employment report. Um,
the data can be pretty noisy, so I think
we need to see what things look like as
we get into September. Uh but I agree
that if the CPI and PCE are are
reasonably well restrained and the labor
market looks weak, then it would be
appropriate to ease rates. However, it's
also quite possible that we'll see a
slowly increasing inflation rate. Um I'm
expecting the CPI will probably be uh
the core CPI will be above 3% uh when it
comes out tomorrow. And if we start
seeing numbers that look higher than the
market's expecting, uh, sentiment can
change pretty quickly. So, I think it's
a little too soon to call September. I
think the Fed was acting appropriately
when it wanted to wait and see cuz, um,
right now, while the, um, payroll
employment was weak, the unemployment
rate was 4.2%.
Um, and the labor market has had a labor
supply shock. So you probably want to
focus a little bit more on the
unemployment rate than the payroll
employment numbers.
>> Eric, as you look at the dual mandate at
the moment, and this really speaks to
the divide of the Federal Reserve, there
are some individuals who want to focus
on the employment side of the mandate,
others who still want to focus on the
price stability side of the mandate. Can
you share with us your experience? Did
you prioritize one side over the other?
Are they created equally?
>> So everybody can vote uh and weigh. I
mean it it's you're not given the
waiting function. So each person can
kind of choose for themselves what they
think is most important at the time. Uh
but the framework document actually
talks about what you should do when both
elements of the mandate are not where
you want it. And in that document it
argues that you should look at how far
away you are from where you want to be
and how long it'll take to get there. So
on inflation if you look at the core PCE
we're at 2.8% 8% and most people think
it's going to take quite some time for
us to get back to 2%. If you look at the
unemployment rate, we're right at 4.2%.
So despite the weak labor supply that's
been happening, uh the labor market
doesn't look uh to be in that much
trouble. You don't see initial claims
rising rapidly. Uh so while I know a
number of participants at the FOMC are
talking about concern about the
employment mandate, it actually is
exactly where they forecast they want it
to be, which is at full employment.
>> Basically, what you outlined there says
that the Fed shouldn't be cutting just
yet. So is there a bias to a weakening
labor market?
So it depends on a forecast and I would
say private sector uh economists do not
see a rapidly rising unemployment rate
and do not see an elevated risk of uh
seeing a recession. So I would think the
rhetoric around the labor market would
be more consistent if the private sector
was seeing more evidence in the data
that the unemployment rate looked like
it was going to rise that initial claims
was going to rise. So I think at this
case at this time it's a little bit odd
to overweight the employment part of the
dual mandate.
>> Eric, can we just sit on the data and I
want to avoid the politics. Don't worry
about that. Not going to include you in
any of that whatsoever. We're always
dependent on the data and there's been a
question for a long long time about how
dependable the data actually is
particularly the labor market data prone
to very large revisions. We saw that
last year. We've seen it many times in
the past as well. Eric, how did you
manage that situation? Were you less
sensitive to incoming monthly reads
knowing that at some point in the future
they would be revised? How did you
approach it?
So, if you focus on a forecast,
monthtomonth doesn't matter nearly as
much as where you expect things to go
over time. And as you point out, the the
labor market data, particularly the
payroll numbers, can be pretty jumpy.
And the reason for that is not because
anybody's manipulating it. It's because
uh they do a survey and if people don't
fill out their survey forms on time,
then uh in the revision, they pick up
the additional surveys. And so depending
on what the response rate is and the
response rate has been going down on
many US government surveys, uh it
becomes less accurate and the revisions
can be larger as they get additional
data. So you never should put too much
weight on any one data point. Uh you're
really looking for a trend. You're not
actually looking for while Wall Street
focuses on beating expectations and
having a number comparing the current
number to what they expected. uh central
bankers should really be worried more
about long-term trends. So long-term
trends don't get affected as much by a
single data point. So you should smooth
through most of that data and that's
what most forecasts end up doing.
>> Eric, do you think there's concern
though that now the US data is no longer
considered the gold standard given the
fact that the president ousted the
commissioner of the BLS?
Well, it depends on who he gets who he
replaces uh at the BLS, but um it would
be very disturbing if you didn't have
reliance on the data and uh the US, not
just the BLS data, but the GDP data, the
inflation data, uh all that data is
critical to making good policy choices.
And if that data is manipulated in some
way uh so that you can't rely on it, it
becomes very problematic for policy. And
while the initial changes are
probably not going to be that
noticeable, uh over time it can create
havoc. And I think you see examples of
that. The Wall Street Journal did an
article on what happened in Argentina
when they started manipulating the data.
Um, China has been famous for dropping
series that didn't work in the way they
were hoping. So, for example, youth
unemployment is not uh reported um
anymore in a consistent basis. But you
see uh young people coming to the United
States because they can't get jobs in
China. So, uh you can conceal to some
extent uh data and for month to month
you can get slightly better numbers, but
over time if you're manipulating the
data, it becomes obvious to the public.
Eric, the president's uh nomination to
fill Governor Cougler seat. Stephen
Myron is an individual that is already
working with him as one of his
economists uh the head of the CEA. Less
than a year ago, Myron was against cuts
at the Fed. Does he look purely
political now potentially to his new
colleagues at the FOMC?
>> I think there is a consistency problem.
Um he has traditionally been somebody
very concerned about the inflation part
of the mandate and so his newfound
interest in the labor market and the
need to uh lower interest rates uh looks
somewhat um
out of character from what he was
concerned about over time. He's written
about uh being concerned that there's
too much politics of the Fed. uh he
obviously has been a strong proponent of
this administration's policies and seems
to be a proponent of lowering interest
rates which has been advocated by the
administration. Uh so if what you're
looking for is an independent Fed, he
probably is not the perfect choice to
ratify an independent Fed.
>> Eric, appreciate your opinion. Thank
you, sir. The former Boston Fed
president there, Eric Rosenrren. Steven
Marin, of course, we'll have plenty of
opportunities to explain his views in
due course. Let's get you an update on
stories elsewhere this morning with your
Bloomberg brief. Here's Yahara Ann Arn.
Hey yara.
>> Hi John. The US expects to largely
complete negotiations with countries
that have yet to secure a trade deal by
the end of October. That's according to
Nick Asia citing an interview with
Treasury Secretary Scott Bessant. They
said Bessant reaffirmed the importance
of the Fed's independence but said the
next central bank head should be very
attuned to forward thinking. Meanwhile,
Palunteer is now the most expensive
stock in the S&P 500 as it trades at 245
times forward earnings. The stock has
soared about 2500%
since 2021 and closed at a fresh
all-time high on Friday. Palanteer has
been boosted by growing AI use, its
business ties to the US government, and
stellar earnings. And President Trump
continuing his attacks on Fed Chair J.
POW while announcing he would hold a
press conference today on making
Washington DC quote safer and more
beautiful. He also vowed to stop people
from spending billions to fix up a
building when there are other problems
to solve. Of course referring to the
renovation of the Federal Reserve
building. That's your Bloomberg brief.
John,
>> thank you. Thank you very much. More
from Yhierra in the next hour. Up next,
upside inflation risk.
>> There are still risks to inflation. Um,
we are going to see more inflation in
terms of core goods, but we're seeing
disinflation on the services side that
is offsetting some of the inflationary
forces on the good side.
>> In just a moment, we'll catch up with
David Rogel of Black Rockck live from
New York. You're watching Bloomberg TV
[Music]
live from New York City. Welcome to the
program. under Savylvanas this morning.
Upside inflation risks.
>> There are still risks to inflation. Um
we are going to see more inflation in
terms of core goods. But I think the
reason that the market has been able to
digest it and the Fed is going to be
able to look through it is because we're
seeing disinflation on the services side
that is offsetting some of the
inflationary forces on the good side.
>> So here's the latest this morning.
Investors awaiting inflation data this
week. CPI and PPI on deck. David Rogel
of Black Rockck writing, "We still think
services inflation is an ongoing
improving path. Tariffs are likely a
one-time price boost." David joins us
now for more. David, good morning.
>> Good morning. How are you?
>> Will the FCC agree with you in
midepptember?
>> I'm not sure. I think uh but I do think
the case for maintenance cuts has
improved um in the last couple of
months. Last five months, we've seen
inflation around around 2%. Um, you
know, I think what you're seeing is
that, uh, you're going to see in the
next few months goods goods price
inflation move up a little bit off of
low levels. The last month on July data,
we saw the goods price data move up to
around a 7% annual rate, but we saw
services inflation offset that. I think
on the next few months, you might see
some of those services stay a little
sickier than they have been. um you're
likely to see some more tariff impact,
although we're not sure exactly how
much. But I think overall um my view is
that tariffs are more of a consumption
tax. They're really more of a supply
side uh shock there. The the fear I
think with the Fed is that tariff
inflation alters inflation expectations.
You've seen some of the inflation
expectations move higher. So, but I
think at the end of the day, we're
talking about a consumption tax. unclear
how much of that is absorbed by price,
margin, and exporter, but I think the
large majority of it will be absorbed
through higher prices.
>> Let's push these views through the bond
market. And what we saw last year take
place was pretty clear. Fed drops rates
100 basis points, long end rejects it,
and yields rise 100 basis points on 10.
Are we set to see a repeat of that in
the months to come into year end? Well,
it it feels eerily similar to last year,
honestly. Even the July data, you know,
with with the Fed waiting in July and
getting a rise in the unemployment rate
last year, then this year we saw the
revisions. It feels eerily similar. I
think what you're seeing is in the front
end, we have a fair amount priced into
the market, particularly around the Fed
transition. Uh we're now pricing policy
rates at the end of next year around 3%.
And when I when I talk to people about
where they think neutral rate is, that's
somewhere in between, you know, the kind
of the two and a half view and the three
and a half view around neutral policy
rates. And so I think there's a fair
amount in the price, we're we're still
focused on that 2 to 5year part of the
curve relative to the long end because
we still think there's going to be more
term premium. The supply demand
imbalance and fixed income is not as
favorable as it used to be. Um, and so
we're still sticking to that part of the
curve. relatively fully priced at the
lower end of the range, but uh I think
you still see bonds relatively well
supported overall.
>> The Fed has obviously bruised what
happened with CO and inflation and the
whole transitory debacle. What makes
this time different?
>> I think the difference, you know, it's
really interesting. It's it's you know,
it's it's very possible that tariffs are
more of a transiary transitory price
impact whereas before I think with co
era inflation, what we saw was this
helicopter money stimulus. It was demand
driven. It was also driven by the mix
shift. We had this rapid mix shift from
services to goods and global supply
chains weren't weren't uh ready for
that. This is very much like a tax and
consumers probably reorienting their
spending. Interestingly, in the CPI
data, you've seen discretionary
spending, I think, pull back a bit this
year. We've seen very weak travel
demand, weaker travel prices. That's
part of what's been bringing down
services inflation alongside somewhat
stickier goods price inflation. So I
think the the shock that we're going to
see here, we're not still not sure of
the magnitude is much more similar to a
supply side or a uh consumption tax
effect than it would be a demand-driven
inflation surge.
>> Right. But for corporate America, if
they have to potentially cut costs,
consu consumers are unwilling to pay
higher prices. Is that going to
potentially mean layoffs?
>> It's really hard to say so far. I mean,
so far, you know, earnings have been
okay. The economy has been pretty pretty
resilient. the labor market has slowed.
Uh it depends on how much can be pushed
through in price. I mean some sectors
have more pricing power than others. I
think what we're seeing in the auto
sector is that pricing power is more
limited. Um and so but I our our view is
still that the majority will be passed
through to higher prices.
>> No sign of markets caring at the moment.
Equities at alltime highs. Some people
might say that's just equities. That's
just tech. High yield credit spreads
though keep getting tighter, tighter,
tighter. What do you and the team see in
high yield credit? Well, we we remain
pretty constructive on the economy
overall, notwithstanding some of these
forces that are slowing things down like
immigration slowing uncertainty on
tariffs, uh tariffs as a consumption
tax. We see a lot of positive offsets
with regards to deregulation,
businessfriendly policies, healthy
corporate balance sheet, healthy
consumer balance sheet. We're on this
big capex boom related to AI and
infrastructure spend. So, I think there
are a lot of positives. We still like
high yield. I think it corporate credit
spreads in aggregate risk premiums
relative to treasury is extremely tight
historically uh lower decile but then
the all-in yield is probably above where
median median levels are over time. So I
think investors are very focused on the
all-in yield. We've been focused on
moving we're overweight high yield in
our portfolios.
>> We've been focused on moving that
regionally outside the US into Asia and
parts of EM where we're seeing much more
credit selection opportunity. We see uh
credit dispersions pretty low in the US
and so we see more security selection
opportunities. It's part of a broader
theme in our portfolios which is to
really try to tap a broader set of
opportunities in this environment.
>> David, I appreciate your time. It's good
to see you sir. Thanks for dropping by.
David Rogo there of Black Rockck.
[Music]
>> Our near-term outlook on equities isn't
great. Some of those valuations seem
much more ephemeral and dot like
>> overall market's really not that
expensive once you take out the mag 7.
>> A key word for investors now and always
is diversification.
>> It's really about long-term investing.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Bramowitz, and An
Marie Hordern.
>> 90 minutes away from the opening bell.
The third hour of Bloomberg Surveillance
starts right now. Live from New York
City this morning. Good morning. Good
morning to you all. Equity futures on
the S&P 500 pretty stable at the moment
positive by 2/10en of 1% coming into
another trading week at all-time highs
on the NASDAQ 100 up by a tenth of 1%.
Your week ahead includes an inflation
print coming tomorrow morning at 8:30
Eastern time. Retail sales on Friday
sandwiched in between this deadline for
a truce between the US and China widely
expected to get a 90-day extension for
all of that. But once again, the focus
on that relationship and the chip makers
and their ability to access that market.
>> Absolutely. This comes when it comes to
the export licenses and these export
controls. We saw from the administration
in April. There was a U-turn on them
when it comes to the A20 and Nvidia and
an AMD's MI308 chip. And now what we are
hearing is that the administration is
going to start the export licenses once
again. But to get those licenses, you
need to give the US government 15% of
the revenue you're getting from selling
those chips into China. This is
unprecedented. This almost has a feel of
central planning in a capitalist
society, which has the business
community, I think, a little bit
concerned. And then the other hand, you
have China hawks in Washington DC
incredibly concerned. Not just because
not because the 15%, they were concerned
when you started using these high-tech
chips at the negotiating table with
Beijing. Who else should be
uncomfortable beyond AMD? Beyond Nvidia,
how many other companies are facing the
same situation through the rest of this
year?
>> Well, this is the big question. If the
Trump administration is successful in
getting AMD and Nvidia to give them 15%
of their profit for allowing them to
sell into the Chinese market, then who's
to say that there's not going to be
other companies that are what you said,
Jonathan, all morning and exactly
correct, paying to play.
>> A lot of friction being introduced into
the global economy. Equities still doing
okay, close to all-time highs. A week of
gains, the biggest week of gains since
June, just last week, following that
ugly payrolls report. That ugly payrolls
report, a distant memory. Coming up this
hour, David Liberitz of JP Morgan Asset
Management with stocks near record
highs. Dan Ies of Wed Bush as the White
House takes a cut of chip sales in China
and Stephanie Roth of Wolf Research
looking ahead to the latest read on
inflation. We begin this hour with stock
study as traders await a key week of
data. David Lieovitz of JP Morgan
writing the following. We continue to
expect a slowdown of growth in the back
half of 2025 and that is beginning to
materialize in the economic data.
However, this is an economy that is
slowing and not stalling. David joins us
now for more. David, good morning.
>> Good morning. How are you?
>> Does that mean we can look through it
all?
>> So, I I think the big question here from
my vantage point is one when you think
about the jobs report that we got for
the month of July, it was actually a
reflection of some of the other data
that we had begun to see come through.
If you think about the past couple of
months of personal income, personal
spending, retail sales, all looking a
little bit soft, but hey, the jobs
numbers were okay until they weren't. I
would point out though that the jobs
numbers weren't terrible. We still
added, you know, 86,000 private sector
jobs in the month of July. The revisions
caught people's attention. But the one
silver lining to that report is the fact
that hours worked increased and wage
growth remains right near 4%. And so
what we're seeing in this economy is not
a whole lot of hiring, not a whole lot
of firing, but we can treat it as a
going concern because individuals and
consumers are getting that cash flow
which they will turn around and spend.
And so we are looking for growth to
soften a bit here, but not necessarily
shoot off the edge of a close.
>> How relevant is that data for where the
equity market trades?
>> So I think this is one of these
environments where the stock market is
not the economy. You know, that's what's
really come through to me. You think
about the second quarter earning season,
more than 80% of companies beating
estimates, you know, year-over-year
growth, quarter over-arter growth, both
positive. You look at the economy, you
know, we had no growth in the first
quarter, we had 3% growth in the second
quarter, we're kind of just humming
along at trend. And so against this
backdrop where the labor market is kind
of in this equilibrium and the economy
is moving back towards its long-term
trend pace of growth, you're seeing this
profit story which is still very robust.
companies are making money despite an
economy that somewhat is uninspiring
>> and they're making money despite higher
tariffs.
>> Exactly.
>> What's going to happen when the higher
rates actually start to bleed into this
market?
>> So, I think it's a it's a timing issue
more than anything else. And the the
problem with people in in my line of
work, right, is we like to shock the
model. We assume that it's all going to
show up at the same point in time. This
is going to be much more gradual than I
think people anticipated. And
furthermore, as we've seen, there's room
for things to move around even once
they've allegedly been been set in
stone. And so what I think you're going
to see here from a growth perspective is
an economy that kind of bumps along into
the end of the year and then
reacelerates in the beginning of 26 as
we get the sugar rush from the fiscal
stimulus. You're going to have inflation
that is just kind of sticky, but you're
not necessarily going to see a big pop.
And what our work has shown over time is
that it's really the inflation surprise
rather than the level of inflation
itself which can be problematic for both
stocks and bonds. And so I think
equities are just focusing on the profit
story and I do think that there there's
some durability here.
>> Do you think they're ignoring maybe some
of the signs we are seeing like that ISM
services report?
>> You know the the survey data has been
mixed in terms of its track record since
co in terms of tracking the the actual
data. I think what what you're seeing
and if you read through some of the
commentary that came through in the ISM
services report, you had concern about
tariffs, but you also had concern about
labor. And so I think that that could
well be the bigger issue as we move into
2026. We've seen this massive reduction
in immigration and labor supply. What
does that mean for wages? And what does
that mean for inflation? Because that's
what's going to make the Fed
uncomfortable if they see wage growth
reel. If you're watching this right now,
you've heard people get crazy about
tariffs, about the data, about the
Federal Reserve, and then they watch
Microsoft come out and put up massive
numbers, and they keep asking a question
I've already asked, which is, does any
of this matter? Should we care about it
when it comes down to a handful of names
of the S&P 500, which make up a big
waiting, and keep delivering? So, I
think that there are a couple of
dynamics to to keep in mind. One is
where we were back in April, right? So,
all of this feels much more comfortable
than what we were dealing with around
Liberation Day. two, at that point in
time, there was no information. And what
you're hearing from companies today is,
hey, you know, there are going to be
tariffs, and we have a plan for dealing
with those tariffs. And then you get the
big tech names in the S&P 500 that have
a plan for dealing with the tariffs.
They're growing their profits. They have
a tremendous amount of cash on their
balance sheet. It's tough to get too
negative about those types of businesses
in this environment. And so from a
portfolio perspective within the US,
we've really been leaning in more to
things like tech and communication
services trying to use a bit more of a
scalpel as opposed to a sawzaw when
allocating to the US equity market.
>> Clearly, we've got concentration risk in
the United States. But I'd be asking a
question repeatedly whether that is
downside risk or a source of stability
for a lot of investors at the moment.
>> I I think more than anything, it's a
source of stability. You know, these are
not your father's tech stocks. This is a
very different environment than where we
were in the late 1990s. There are
profits behind these businesses and they
clearly want to play ball. I think you
know what we saw last week in terms of
you know various tech CEOs kind of
coming to the White House and being
alongside the president. They recognize
that the path forward for their company
is going to be dependent on navigating a
an uncertain political environment. But
you know the administration views
uncertainty and volatility as an arrow
in their quiver. It's a tool that they
use. And so I think from a business
perspective, what you're seeing CEOs say
is, "Okay, this is the world that I'm
going to be operating in. How do I most
effectively operate in that world?"
>> What are the companies you want to
avoid? What kind of companies, which
sectors?
>> So I I think where you're going to see
things get hit the hardest are really
obviously in the goods space, but more
specifically in areas like consumer
staples. If you look at where consumer
staples margins are relative to their
long-term history, they're at the lower
end of the range. That means that any
increase in input costs stemming from
tariffs is going to get passed directly
through. And we've seen the consumer
become more sensitive to the prices
they're paying. Right? In some of the
earnings reports, companies talking
about trading down, focusing more on
private label pricing power, right? I
think the prior guest said it. It's
those industries with pricing power
where you want to lean in. It's those
industries where maybe I buy, you know,
these paper towels instead of these
paper towels that you may want to steer
a bit clearer.
>> Besides the 7 versus the 493, what else
do you like?
>> We like financials. We think financials
here are particularly interesting. One
from a deregulation story, but also just
from an economic growth story. And with
consumers getting effectively a raise
next year given what's been passed in
the big beautiful bill, we think that
that could stoke demand for credit um
and help traditional banking who are
obviously trying to take share back from
from things like private credit and very
keen to to get money in motion.
>> The deregulation story is a little bit
harder to track.
>> Yes.
>> How how how far along are we? So I I
think it's one of those those issues
where it's being worked on in the
background and you know they kind of it
comes out in conversation when markets
start to get a little bit rocky. So
we're still going to be dealing with the
carrot and the stick and I think that
that's just the environment that we're
going to be in going forward. But I do
think that you'll see deregulation begin
to gain pace particularly as we get more
clarity around what's going to happen at
the Federal Reserve. And obviously there
are some questions there right now. Um,
and I think we need to be sensitive to
the fact that I think it was being said
earlier, central bankers focus on the
trend, right? Central bankers don't
focus on what the monthly data print is
going to be. And if you look at some of
the trends in inflation, yes, they look
okay, but I'm not really sure that
inflation is where the Fed wants it to
be. And the labor market still looks
okay. And so these calls for, you know,
two, three, four rate cuts, they need to
get going. They're already too late. I
think that those are a little bit
displaced. And I do think that while two
the door to two cuts is more open than
it was a couple of weeks ago, I think
that it's it would be inappropriate to
get too excited about a massive Fed
easing.
>> Stuart Kaiser City saying the best case
might be the base case. And the base
case at the moment is two cuts this
year.
>> Exactly.
>> And if you end up with more, it's not
for good reasons. And if you end up with
less, it's not for good reasons.
>> Exactly.
>> Is the base case the best case?
>> I I think that the base case is is the
best case. You know, I think markets are
would be it's a question of surprising
investors, right? And the Fed at the
beginning of the year said, "We think
we're going to cut twice." The Fed ends
up cutting twice. There are no surprises
there. The Fed cut once, I think that
the market can digest that. But I think
the bigger risk is that we get more of
these cuts coming through because the
only reason that you're going to have a
Fed cutting more aggressively is because
they see some problem in the labor
market and that's going to be a problem
for the economy despite the stimulus
that's coming through in 2026.
>> David, it's good to see you.
>> Thanks.
>> Thanks for dropping by. Thank you. David
Levitz there of JP Morgan Asset
Management. Equities positive by two ten
of 1% on the S&P with an update on
stories elsewhere with your Bloomberg
brief. Here's Yhira. Hey Yhierra.
>> Hi John. Nvidia and Advanced Micro
Devices known as AMD have agreed to pay
15% of their revenues from AI chip sales
in China to the US government in a deal
to secure export licenses to the
country. The arrangement reflects
President Trump's effort to engineer a
financial payout for America in return
for trade concessions. Meanwhile,
President Trump is preparing to meet
with Russian President Vladimir Putin in
Alaska on Friday to discuss ending the
war in Ukraine. Meanwhile, President
Vladimir Zalinski said Keev won't seed
territory to end the war with Russia.
European leaders pledged their continued
support for Ukraine sovereignty, saying
international borders must not be
changed by force. And Justin Rose won
the FedEx St. Jude championship in
Memphis yesterday with a sensational
performance on the back nine. Rose made
up a three shot deficit over the last
five holes against Tommy Fleetwood,
including four straight birdies. He then
made two birdies in a playoff against US
Open winner JJ Spawn to take home the
trophy. That's your Bloomberg brief.
John
>> Yara, thank you. Thrilled for Justin
Rose. Shout out Tommy Fleetwood. Never
won on the PJ tour. Keeps coming so
close. Keeps missing out. Still speaks
to the press afterwards. That guy I just
have so much respect for week in week
out for showing up delivering at some
ridiculously high levels. Just that
close to the moment that close and can't
get over the line.
>> That's sad, isn't it? Go so close, but
yet so far don't really know what you're
talking about cuz I did not watch this.
>> Up next, the morning calls. I talked to
myself in future with regards to golf.
You know what I mean? Up next, we're
getting the morning calls. Plus, Dan
Ives of Wed Bush as Nvidia and AMD agree
to give up a cut of sales to China. That
conversation just around the corner.
[Music]
This new element of this 15% of the
profits is really highlighting how
transactional the administration is. And
this is a president who's willing to uh
take different approaches to all sorts
of problems like trade negotiations.
Here he's saying, "Okay, I'll let you
sell your technology to China, but I'm
going to take a chunk of of your profits
for doing so." This is something we've
never seen before.
>> That was the former senior White House
trade adviser Kellyanne Shaw weighing in
on what we've seen with AMD and Nvidia
over the weekend this morning and good
morning. Equities doing okay. Equity
futures positive by 210 of 1% on the
S&P. Positive also on the NASDAQ 100.
That's the price action. Here are some
morning calls. First up, Melia
downgrading Adobe to sell, calling AI a
growing competitive risk. Your second
call from Wells Fargo, raising its price
target on Nvidia to 220, citing upside
from new China export license
agreements. And finally, Bernstein
reiterating its market perform on AMD,
noting renewed licenses in China offer
upside potential. Sticking with both
Nvidia and AMD, sources telling us here
at Bloomberg, the chip makers have
agreed to pay 15% of revenue from sales
in China to the US government. Joining
us now is Bloomberg's Ed Lllo. Ed,
welcome to the program, sir. What's the
reaction been from both Nvidia and AMD?
>> Not it's not hugely surprising, right?
That's what you hear in the
semiconductor industry because front and
center of the president's effort to use
the tariff tool as as a levy, right? A
sort of piece of fiscal policy. The
emphasis on the AI industry has been to
go after those corners of activity that
are capital intensive, where there's
committed investment. As you rightly
point out and our sourcing suggests,
this is a quid proquo. It's
transactional where the 15% revenue
share is in order that AMD and Nvidia
get hold of uh export licenses for the
specific AI chips that are designed for
that market. That's the price of access.
But I was on MODL and and I you know
reading the notes, the most bullish side
of the street sees them returning to
growth in that market quickly if they
can shift the gear. So in Nvidia's case,
if they have a fiscal quarter where
they're doing7 billion dollars of China
AI accelerator sales, the United States
will will book a billion dollars out of
that transaction. It's unprecedented in
the modern era. And the final bit that
that people talk about is, you know, is
it a good thing for Nvidia and AMD?
Well, you should note that in the the
rest of the technology sector, you have
US officials flying around the world
dissuading companies from doing business
with China. But China's a critical
market for data center and it's the
price of access.
>> Ed, appreciate the update and looking
forward to the coverage later on this
morning. Ed Lllo, Caroline Hyde at about
11 a.m. Eastern time. With us around a
table, Dan Ies of Wedbush. Dan, good
morning.
>> Great to be here.
>> Did the price of an H20 chip in China
just go up overnight
>> by 15%. I mean, look, the reality, it's
the cost of doing business, right? And I
think when you look at Jensen, you look
at anyone in the semi-world, you need
access to China and it it comes down to
this is ultimately the path that they're
going to have to go through. And look at
investors, it's obviously it's a
headline sort of risk or shocker, but
the reality is is that you need to get
into China. It's what you got to do.
>> Given where we were a few months ago, is
this an improvement?
>> Oh, it's it's a massive improvement. I
mean, if you go back to some of those
dark days, you know, where we were in
April, some of those Armageddon days,
it's showing at least now there is
negotiations, right? And in that, it's
essentially a game of high stakes poker.
So, when you look at what's happening in
tech, just like we saw with Cook at the
White House and everything else, it's
like, okay, if you play nice in the
sandbox, that's going to be how this is
going to work at least for the next
three and a half years. And I think for
big tech, you don't want to be on the
outside looking in. And it's essentially
it's a deal you can't refuse, right? I
mean, to quote Godfather, it's like this
is one where tech companies need to go
down this route to get access to China.
And I think on the other side, Trump
administration recognizes, hey, if we
don't give them access, it's going to
make China that much stronger, Huawei,
everyone else.
>> Is this the new rules of the road
though, you have to basically pay off
the US government.
>> Look, I mean, it definitely we're in
unprecedented territory. And I do think
you you're starting to see big tech CEOs
better understand the rules. And I think
that's why if you're on the outside,
it's not a good spot to be. Now, from a
from an investor perspective, you'll pay
the 15% tax to get access to China.
>> And that's worth it.
>> It's worth it because relative to the
market, relative to the opportunity. And
even though it will obviously there will
be a lot of questions in terms of what
this means, I think overall relative to
the last few months, it's much more
bullish for US tech and semis and Nvidia
and the godfather of AI gent and
everyone else to have access to that
China market.
>> Nvidia's got a strategy and investors
like it. Apple's questionable. You've
come out and said this is the Blackberry
moment for Apple. Why?
>> The reason it's a Blackberry moment is
that when it comes to AI, it's invisible
the strategy that Cook and Certino have.
And right now, this is essentially uh in
big tech. It's an F1 race in Monza and
Cook is on a park bench drinking
lemonade watching it go by. Internally,
it's not going to happen. Like, you
know, like there's no development that's
going to happen internally to get Apple
into the game when it comes to AI. and
we've talked about it whether it's
perplexity whether it's despite
regulatory doubling down on Google in
terms of a Gemini partnership or getting
new blood in getting new leadership
under Cook because look this is like I
think when you think about Cook's legacy
which has been so historic this will
tarnish his legacy
>> when I think of his legacy I think of
buybacks and supply chains is he the
right man to lead this company
>> look I think this is it's It's a key
moment for him. I believe he is to be
CEO, especially over the coming years.
But you cannot be the biggest consumer
base in the world, 2.4 billion iOS
devices, 1.5 billion iPhones, and miss
the fourth industrial revolution. And
that's why it comes back to like those
WWC events that we are at. It's a back
to the future moment. You feel like
you're back in 20.
>> I don't like being late. Is being late
an option on this one?
>> No. And look, being late is one thing.
being casually late. This is something
where you can miss the moment. And
that's why the reason we call it a
Blackberry moment because it's not just
going to be about, okay, we have an
orange iPhone this year and this is the
little
>> You think he needs to bring in new
talent, but they've already lost top
talent to Meta. Why do you think he's
going to last till 2030?
>> Because this is I believe they got to
rip the band-aid off, change the DNA in
Certino. Look, no one could argue and
we've been one of the biggest supporters
Apple to where they are today. But you
got to recognize the games change and in
the AI revolution in wartime CEOs with
Zuckerberg and Musk and everything is
seen. You know, obviously from Nadella
and Jensen, you cannot just sit there
watching this go by. And even if they
did a perplexity deal and you talk about
that was a $30 billion deal, it's a drop
in the bucket relative. But the longer
they wait, that continues to be the
overhang. A huge overhang was lifted
last week in terms of tariffs and and
obviously in terms of what they did in
the White House. But the elephant in the
room continues to be AI.
>> What about the Google Gemini
partnership?
>> Look, it comes down to like as I cover
Microsoft in the late 90s, you could I
mean Gates bomber biggest regret was
during all the regulatory DOJ, they
didn't go after some of the biggest
technology trends and they ultimately
won that case. Now for Google and it
comes to Apple, you cannot just sit here
and just be on that treadmill at 2.5
speed. They got to focus. And I believe
when it comes to partnership, that's
something that they're going to have to
seriously aggressively consider.
>> What is this investment commitment all
about? Who are they kidding here? How
much money are they actually going to
invest in this country?
>> Well, look, that's why I mean, if you go
back to like we've always said like the
the chance of them making an iPhone in
the US is a fair.
>> Okay, so that's not going to happen. And
and the reality is like they'll continue
to invest more in AI and some of the
other investors.
>> What do they consider as investment? How
much are they currently spending on
capex on any given year? Can they hit
the numbers they're trying to say
they're going to they're going to hit
when they sit in the White House with
the president?
>> It goes back to four years ago like what
they talked about and where they are
today, right? Like has a lot of that
come to fruition? I think it I think for
Apple that was a we talked about Cook
10% politician 90% CEO. That was a smart
move. But I do believe this
administration is watching carefully
their investment and if they feel that
there's a little look over there moment
they will come.
>> You're the analyst. Do you think there
is?
>> I think there's definitely risk here and
I think the elephant in the room. I
think the bigger thing is it's not
necessarily even about investment in the
US. It's about make the big AI
investments and you could kill two birds
with one stone. Do it in the US. That's
where you're going to innovate because
iPhones are not going to be made here.
You could also do that with an
acquisition and you could have happiness
in 202 as well as on Wall Street
relative to what Apple needs to do.
>> Final question before you go. You've got
a new clothing line. Congratulations. A
lot of people responded to this in the
the obvious fashion. They responded,
excuse the fun, they're coming out and
saying, "If Dan Ives has a new clothing
line, then this must be the top."
>> Sure. I I I get I get I get the whole
Ives clothing line at the top. But
again, this is also because I believe,
you know, for years, I've wanted to
create clothing that, you know, many
could go out of the box, more color, and
it but as I've said in this AI party,
it's still 1000 p.m. was 9:00 p.m. Party
goes to 4:00 a.m. and now you have some
new clothes that you could wear.
>> Okay. And we might be blinded along the
way, Dan. Appreciate it. Congrats as
always, sir. Dan Ives there of Wed Bush
on the latest with big tech, on AMD, on
Nvidia. Up next on the program, we'll
catch up with Stephanie Roth of Wolf
Research on why tariff impacts on
inflation may be worse than expected
with inflation data just around the
corner. CPI tomorrow morning, the main
event on the data front at 8:30 Eastern
time. Going into that data print,
equities are doing okay. I keep saying
this, we're coming into the week at
all-time highs on the NASDAQ 100. Close
to those levels on the S&P 500 and the
gains continue up another tenth of 1% on
the S&P on the NASDAQ up by 0.1 on the
Russ up by 0.3. And in the bond market,
starting the week with a bit of a rally.
Firmer yields lower. We're down two
basis points on 10 to 426.
[Music]
The oven 60 minutes away. Equities are
firmer on the S&P 500 and on the Nasdaq.
Likewise on the Russell. Futures up by
0.13% with your morning movers. Here's
Yahihyra. Hey yhara.
>> Hi John. We start with the latest
company to report results and that is
Weight Watchers. Shares are soaring up
10% after it issued a fullear revenue
forecast signaling confidence in its
turnaround after the company filed for
bankruptcy back in May. It had been
rocked by the GLP1 craze. But now it's
leaning into that area and having some
success. clinical revenue in the latest
quarter surged more than 50% driven by
growing subscriptions to its semiglutype
based treatment. So the future for this
company appears to be less about points
more about shots. If you know you know
next up we have shares of AMC. They are
also rising after a strong showing in
earnings. They are rising 8.5% here. The
results showed a 35% jump year-over-year
in admissions revenue as audiences keep
returning to theaters. And while they
are there, they are spending on food and
drink with that category up 36%
yearonear. And we end on Core Wee. That
stock is also higher up 3.6% on a new
bullish call over at JP Morgan, which
raised its price target to $135. We are
almost at those levels. They highlighted
Core Weeav's massive AI data center deal
with OpenAI and long-term growth
potential. This is a company that went
public back in March and it is up 220%
since then and the next catalyst could
be tomorrow when it reports results.
John
>> Yhara, thank you. Appreciate it. Thank
you for the update. Looking ahead to
tomorrow, inflation data on deck. A key
week of economic data. With your preview
is Bloomberg's Michael McKe. Good
morning, Mike. Morning,
>> John. I thought it was very nice of the
government to wait till you got back to
release all of this data because it is
going to be a very big week and one
number to rule them all is the CPI. If
the CPI comes in relatively benign, we
are probably going to be more on track
for a rate cut. If it jumps and watch
the 3% mark for the core, it's going to
be a problem. Tuesday and Wednesday, we
get uh Fed speak and we'll hear from
Barkin and Schmidt and Goulsby who
haven't spoken since the uh jobs report
came out and we'll get an idea of what
camp they're going to be in after all
this. Thursday, we get PPI and jobless
claims. Always an eye on jobless claims.
And Friday, are consumers hanging in
there? We get retail sales and the
University of Michigan and we get import
prices. Now, tariffs aren't reflected in
import prices, but if exporters are
raising prices ahead of the uh tariffs
or even lowering prices to absorb some
of it, that may show up in the numbers.
And all this will lead us Friday
afternoon to check this chart one more
time. And that's the odds of a Fed rate
cut right now at about 84% 85%. that
could go up significantly if we get a
decent CPI report and no problems in the
rest of the economy. Otherwise, uh we
may watch it go back the other way. So,
a lot to keep an eye on and uh we can do
that now because John is back.
>> Mike McKe, I build my vacation around
their data. You know that, not the other
way around. Mike, thank you. Appreciate
it. Thanks for the update. Looking ahead
to tomorrow's CPI report, Stephanie Roth
of Wolf Research writing, "We're looking
for 0.31%
core CPI, but risks are to the upside."
Stephanie joins us now for more.
Stephanie, good morning.
>> Good morning.
>> Upside risk tomorrow or upside risk
through the rest of this year.
>> Tomorrow and then the rest of the year
and more so perhaps for the rest of the
year. I think tomorrow's print could be
a little bit elevated, but then as we
move for the next couple of couple of
prints, that's when we might start to
see the real tariff impact start to show
up.
>> We've seen this tension between goods
and services. Will we see that tension
again tomorrow morning? I think the
problem is we're going to start moving
in the same direction. So for a lot of
this year, you've seen softer on on
travels in particular. That's putting
downward pressure on services and then
upward pressure on goods. They help to
offset one another. For the next couple
of prints, it might go in the other
direction in which case travel might
start to pick up. At the same time,
goods are inflecting higher and that
could pose a risk for some some scary
looking uh inflation prints in the next
couple.
>> Sounds like potent potentially
stagflation. What does the Fed do with
this?
>> It's a toughen backdrop for them.
Perhaps when they're when they're
sitting here at the September FOMC, they
might just take kind of what the
market's giving them. That's kind of a
question. That said, I think in the next
couple of couple of weeks, the markets
start to might to price in a lower odds
of of a September cut. So, at this
point, in our view, it's kind of 50/50,
but the next couple prints might not
look so great for the Fed to be able to
cut. Before the labor market report, it
was a 40% chance of a September rate
hike. Now, it's like 70 uh 95% chance
after the labor market report. Now then,
we have two CPIs and one more jobs
report. What do you think is going to be
most important going to the September
Fed meeting?
They're all going to be important, I
think. And and not, if I had to pick
one, I would say maybe the labor market
report just because the extent of the
backward revisions were so significant.
And our base case at this point is that
we'll start to see the the data inlect a
little bit higher and the picture will
look a bit brighter. We think the the
backward revisions were partially tied
to the extent of the extreme uncertainty
in in in May and June, specifically in
June. Payroll processors submit their uh
companies that submit it via payroll
processors. They might not have fully
updated uh a lot of the the job loss
that happened within the month of June.
Then they went back and revised it. So
that explains the downward revisions. I
don't think it's necessarily indicative
of what's happening in the future.
You're starting to see job postings pick
up. Claims remain stable. The picture
looks a lot better than at least the
most recent 3 months.
>> Yeah, forgive the snug. This is a
chairman of the Federal Reserve who
anchored his view on the labor market
around one data point, unemployment. He
should feel pretty comfortable even with
the revisions a few Fridays ago,
shouldn't he?
>> I think so. But I think you have to just
wonder to the extent that you're
starting to see the significant
downward, you know, momentum in terms of
payrolls. I think what we'll see after
the next payroll sprint though is an
unemployment rate that still remains
fairly stable and then the the last at
least two months of of jobs looking a
little bit better, something around the
60 to 70,000 range, which is okay.
You've been warning about this for a
while. Get comfortable with 60 to 70,
maybe even 50, perhaps even lower. Just
explain that a little bit more.
>> Yeah. So, the steadystate growth of
payrolls has slowed down substantially.
If you look at the best last couple of
years, it was running significantly
above trend because of immigration. Now,
immigration has slowed down
substantially. Not only slowing, but
they've also ended uh 500,000 visas
overnight from May to June. So, that's
one thing that might help explain the
extent of the revisions that happened in
in the month of June. The steadyst state
pace of of of hiring has slowed down
because of this. We were bringing in
75,000 people per month on Biden's
parole programs. Those have been cut off
and the the people holding visas are are
getting expired. So that should
dramatically lower that steady state
pace from something above 150 to
something half that.
>> So you're saying that basically labor
market's more frozen than it is weak.
>> Yeah, I think it's partially frozen and
partially just some funky labor supply
issues that are that are playing out.
you're starting to see uh you know lower
demand in in certain areas, but I think
that might be just a function of the
economic environment that happened in
the past couple months as well. Looking
forward, companies might start to
realize that the the backdrop is looking
a little bit better than what they
thought and they might start to to to
proceed with their hiring plans, which
might mean the pace of hiring in the
next couple months might be a little bit
better than expected.
>> If the pace of hiring does get better,
does the Fed then have more of a bias
towards anchoring inflation?
>> Yes, I think that's fair. The next se
the September FOMC is tough because
we're just coming off the the bad
revisions. They only get one more labor
market data, but I think there's a
decent chance that they end up
potentially cutting in September and
then being forced to sort of stay on
hold for a little while because the
inflation data will start picking up and
that will really challenge the backdrop
for them.
>> What do you think this Fed's going to
look like in 2026? Is any of this
relevant? How big a change are we going
to see to that committee?
>> I think it'll be at the margin. we'll
have someone a little bit more dovish at
the top. But I think what we're starting
to see with the list that has been uh
percolating is is the they're they're
looking for a more establishment type of
chair. It seems they're leaning in that
direction. Certainly Bess seems to be
pushing for that because that's better
for markets that perhaps he he's getting
the message across that that's probably
the the better outcome for for markets.
I think what we'll see is a couple of
additional uh more dovish members. It
doesn't change the the median that much.
Perhaps maybe one or two more cuts than
would otherwise be the case. What's
price for 26 relative to what's the
median dot at the moment? What's price
for 26 at the moment? How aggressive are
investors relative to what you're
expecting too?
>> Yeah, for I I mean I think investors are
expecting
five cuts maybe for the for for for you
know the the next couple of prints. And
I think when we're talking to people
when I'm talking to clients, they seem
to be a lot more worried about the labor
backdrop than would otherwise be the
case. So yeah, maybe the
some mixed sort of readings out there,
but when you're talking to actual
investors, the last payroll sprint
really jarred them and they're they're
wondering whether we've written
rewritten history and there's actually
the significant unraveling of labor.
>> Are they just not convinced by the
supply side story?
>> Yeah, I think that's that's probably the
case. And people weren't necessarily
paying attention to this whole
immigration story for quite some time.
The focus had been on deportations,
which is which is a a sideshow to some
extent because deportations is not
really what's going on here. It is the
expiration of visas of people who are
here legally and now the administration
has terminated those programs. So the
the parole programs in particular that's
about a million and a half people whose
visas are going to be expired in the
next year.
>> And what industries are those people in?
>> A lot of it's bluecollar type type
industries. Construction, retail and
hospitality,
uh meat packing is another big one. So,
these are the areas that we should start
to see some tightening in the labor
market, which is perhaps one reason that
we're starting to see a little bit of
wage pressure. And this is this has been
our call that we will see a very low
steadystate pace of hiring, unemployment
that's kind of steady, and then wage
pressure start to build, at least at the
margin.
>> So, you can see a situation where
payroll growth steps down, but slack
doesn't increase because that's a really
important distinction.
>> Yes. Exactly. And that's kind of what
we're what we're looking at because
there's a real tightening in in labor
supply. Yeah. slightly slight slowing in
demand but perhaps not massively so and
this is kind of the backdrop that we're
we're living with and it's hard for the
market to digest that and I think that's
what we're uh we're sort of facing in
the next couple weeks and it might be
challenging for for equities in the next
couple weeks as we digest some of the
stronger inflation prints at the same
time but net net the economy is fine and
we're going to be running at a place
where growth is is potentially
inflecting a little bit higher at the
same time inflation is also as well
>> Stephanie it's good to see you as always
thanks for dropping by Stephanie Roth
there of wolf for research with an
update on stories worldwide with your
Bloomberg brief. Let's cross back over
to Yhara Alan for more. Hey Yhara.
>> Hi John. Colombian presidential hopeful
Mel Uribe who had warned that the nation
was slipping back into its violent past
has died. Ube's wife confirmed his death
two months after he was gunned down
while campaigning in Bgotaa. Urbe had
been hospitalized in critical condition
and underwent several neurosurgeries.
Meanwhile, President Trump hopes that
China will quadruple its soybean orders
just a day before the trade truce
between the two two countries expires.
The soybean push comes as US farmers are
just weeks away from their next harvest.
As of late July, US government data
showed China has refrained from booking
any cargos for the upcoming season as
trade tensions linger.
And Micron shares are rising 5% in the
pre-market. The company boosted its
fourth quarter revenue and earnings
outlook citing improved pricing. Micron
has been one of the best performing chip
stocks this year up more than 40% but it
disappointed investors back in June with
an outlook that fell short of lofty
expectations. That's your Bloomberg
brief. John
>> Yhara, thank you. Thanks for this
morning. Up next on the program we'll
set you up for the day ahead. Plus,
we'll catch up with the Flexport CEO
Ryan Pettison on how supply chains are
managing a brand new trading landscape
live from New York City. You're watching
Bloomberg TV.
[Music]
I think we need to see what things look
like as we get into September. If the
CPI and PCE are are reasonably well
restrained and the labor market looks
weak, then it would be appropriate to
ease rates. However, it's also quite
possible that we'll see a slowly
increasing inflation rate. Um, I'm
expecting the CPI will probably be uh
the core CPI will be above 3%. And if we
start seeing numbers that look higher
than the market's expecting, uh,
sentiment can change pretty quickly.
>> That was the former Boston Fed President
Eric Rosenrren joining us a little bit
earlier, looking ahead to the September
Federal Reserve meeting and looking
forward to what we could see tomorrow
morning at 8:30 Eastern time with US
inflation data. Here's a snapshot of the
price action going into the opening bal
about 45 minutes away. Building on last
week's gains, a big weekly gain, the
biggest in fact going back to the end of
June. Equity futures positive this
morning by around a tenth of 1%.
Building on alltime highs on the NASDAQ
100, just about in the green so far this
morning. If you turn to the bond market,
2-year, 10-year, 30-year. Let's compare
the front end to the long end. At the
front end of the curve, the 2-year
anchored around the view that maybe this
Federal Reserve is about to reduce
interest rates. 2-year rates at about
37560 this morning. at the longer end of
the curve coming into Monday. Yields
higher, just a grind higher for four
consecutive session. Yields a little bit
lower this morning by a basis point at
427. But the big bet emerging on Wall
Street is that maybe you see a snapshot,
a brief pop in the long end compared to
what you might see at the front end.
Perhaps a repeat of what we saw last
year and a much steeper yield curve.
Front end rallies, long end sells off as
this Fed gets maybe a little bit more
aggressive on interest rates and the
long end of the curve begins to push
back and push back a little bit more. We
saw this play out last year. Will we see
a repeat later on this year? That's the
price action in the bond market. This is
what you can look forward to through the
rest of this week. At 10 a.m. Eastern
time, President Donald Trump holding a
news conference. Tomorrow, the big data
point. Inflation just around the corner.
Plus, the current trade truths between
the US and China is set to expire.
Looking ahead to Thursday, PPI data and
another round of jobless claims in
focus. Friday, President Trump and
Russian President Vladimir Putin meeting
in Alaska. Plus, we'll get some retail
sales data. and you consumer sentiment
numbers going into the weekend. Let's
turn to trade. The Flexport CEO Ryan
Peterson writing the following. US ports
are bracing for a tariff fueled surge.
The new wave of reciprocal tariffs is
driving lastminute shipping activity
especially from India, Taiwan and
semiconductor suppliers. I'm pleased to
say the man himself joins us now for
more. Ryan, welcome to the program, sir.
Just describe if you can the activity
that you've seen over the past few
months, the rush to secure air freight,
all kinds of things. Ryan, what are you
seeing?
>> Yeah, hi. Thanks for having me on. Well,
it's been crazy volatile ever since the
Liberation Day tariffs were announced.
You had immediately after that, you had
a 60% decline in ocean freight bookings
from China to the US. That lasted about
five weeks. So, just a massive decline
of freight coming out of China. Um, you
then had once the tariffs were relaxed,
the surge to 80% above the pre-tariff
level of volumes. That's what I was
describing in that tweet. Uh, and now
now this I think that was from a couple
of weeks ago because things have been
settling in and now we're seeing the
real effect of tariffs which is people
shipping less stuff. Prices of ocean
freight are coming way down um back to
you know we're probably over the next
few weeks going to see prices back to
levels that we saw we haven't seen since
after the pandemic in like 2023 when
prices were quite low. So, I I don't
know if you call that normalizing or
just like doing what you would predict,
which is tariffs should lead to less
freight uh which should lead to lower
prices and uh it's not it's not great
for companies involved in the business.
>> Geographically, Ryan, what ports are
dealing with really soft demand?
>> Um it's I I assume that it's pretty
evenly distributed across all the ports.
I don't think there's a trend by port.
It's actually one thing that has
happened here is the airports because
that when the tariffs are on s announced
with such short deadlines, you see this
huge rush to ship air freight in and
that sort of ended last a couple of days
ago at the end of last week when the new
tariffs took effect. Um, but in the
prior two or three weeks to that, there
was this huge switch between from ocean
freight to air freight. because we I met
one customer said they saved $2 million
by switching for containers from ocean
freight to air freight just by beating
the tariffs.
>> We've seen this administration really
try to go after trans shshipment. How is
that affecting the supply chains and
what you're tracking?
>> Yeah, this this new trans shshipment
rule is quite interesting. So like
basically what they've said is that if
you uh you have a one duty rate which is
around 20% for goods from for example
Vietnam but if the goods are determined
to be trans shipped from another country
through Vietnam then the duty rate is
much higher. This is a very strange
policy because historically in all
president of country of origin rules
then the Vietnam has nothing to do with
the duty rate. If they if they're trans
shship through Vietnam the the duty rate
is still China's
duty rate is not Vietnam. So it's it's
quite a confusing rule from those in the
industry. What we're basically saying is
hey in addition to going to jail for
committing customs fraud, you're also
going to have to pay a higher duty rate.
So I mean it's I guess it's effective
but it's very strange policy. But have
you actually seen it work when you're
tracking all of this cargo?
>> No, it's not. I mean, because it's a
sort of a nonsense. It's basically
saying, "Hey, if you're committing
fraud, then then you have to pay a
higher duty rate." Well, like I mean,
the fraud the penalties were already
much worse for committing fraud than a
higher duty rate. So, no, we haven't
seen anything like change because of it,
>> Ryan. How creative are people getting?
What kind of mitigation strategies are
they introducing? What are you
suggesting? What are you advocating for?
Yeah, I mean the first thing I'm
advocating is don't do anything illegal
and there's a lot of incentive to break
the rules now because that you know uh
and you do see people who are who um who
are breaking the rules now. For example,
if you import goods from China and the
Chinese company serves as the importer
and all you do is the American company
that used to import them and now you're
just saying, "Hey, I buy them in
America. The Chinese company imported
them and they happen to cheat on the
customs duties. That's not my fault."
Well, guess what? customs will hold you
liable. That's not a loophole that you
can get out of so easily. Is that um
what's what's legal and what we're
advising people to do is look very
closely at three things. One is the
valuation of the goods. Two is the
country of origin. And three is the
classification. Now, all of these seem
like black and white, but they're not.
This is the law. This is regulation. And
therefore, there's a lot of room for
expertise to come in and identify what
is the gray area and what is the legal
gray area. how do you say on the right
side of that legal area? Um, and some of
it's not gray, it's just like
sophisticated. So on valuation, if you
provided capex assistance to your
factory or there's other rules that you
can say how this lower the value of the
goods, you would pay less tariff. You
got to do it legally though. Make sure
you have an expert. Um, on the country
of origin, similar things. How do you
classify this? How do you qualify this
as being a country of origin that has a
lower duty rate? it. There's a lot of
sophistication in that as well of
saying, "Hey, did you apply enough new
value added either materials or labor in
that other country to change the country
of origin legally, not committing
fraud?" Um, and and the third is
classification. It's illegal to change
the classification of your goods in
order to achieve a lower duty rate. But
if the correct classification of your
goods happens to have a lower duty rate,
you win. So there's again a lot of work
that needs to be done by sophisticated
people who understand these rules that
can help you out. Flexport has a team
that does this as do many other
companies.
>> Ron, are you finding that more work just
means more time? Is this slowing things
down?
>> Um, yeah. It's definitely increasing
cost for everybody in in myriad ways. I
mean, even just if you want to bring
goods to another country, transform
them, change their country of origin,
and lower their duty rate. I mean,
that's a lot of extra work, a lot of
extra shipping time, labor processing.
You've increased the cost plus the
duties. Uh, so yeah, certainly this is
uh it's not making trade more seamless.
That's for sure.
>> Ryan, based on what you're seeing, is
there anyone that thinks that the US and
China won't extend this deadline of
their agreement, their truce? That's up
tomorrow.
>> Yeah, I mean, I'm sure lots of people
think they won't extend it, and some
think they will. I I haven't looked at
what the prediction markets are saying
on this. I'm it it this administration
is sort of inscrutable from my
perspective. I don't I don't really make
a lot of predictions on that. So,
>> well, are people frontloading and
rushing before tomorrow from China or
No.
>> Um, I mean, at this point, it's too
late. So, they were uh people were
moving stuff in, but no, I didn't see a
lot of front loing on the China one.
Yeah, fair enough. From the from the
behavior of the actual actors in the
market, it seems like they think it'll
get extended.
>> Ryan, I appreciate your time and your
insight. Super valuable as always, sir.
Thank you. Ran Peterson there, the
flexport CEO. It's just been this
neverending stimulus for global trade
over the last several months. Get ahead
of the next one, get ahead of the next
one, and then get ahead of the next one.
>> And it's constant. And what we saw on
Friday was potentially this concern
about gold bars. You can imagine some
people getting very creative when it
comes from gold bars, maybe in
Switzerland or in Hong Kong now having
to play the duty. Well, maybe there's
some way you can sneak them in. Not
sure.
>> Any reason to believe we won't get that
90-day extension in the next 24 hours?
At the moment, I don't have any reason
to believe that unless Trump wants to
use it as a negotiating tool to try to
ramp up the heat and the rhetoric with
China, especially as it goes into this
meeting on Friday in Alaska with
President Putin.
>> Trade in focus in the next 24 hours,
that's for sure. The trade bump that we
might see in goods inflation will be in
focus tomorrow morning at 8:30 Eastern
time. At the moment, going into the
opening bow, stocks doing okay, better
than okay at alltime highs on the S&P
500 around those levels at those levels
on the NASDAQ 100 going into the opening
bow. Coming up tomorrow, we'll catch up
with Keith Lerner of Truist, Torson
Slock of Apollo, Stuart Kaiser of City,
Kenny Kaminsky of Alpha Simplex to break
down tomorrow's inflation data. Look
forward to retail sales data later on in
the week and maybe witness more all-time
highs in this equity market. This market
keeps on shrugging in the face of
elevated policy risk down in Washington
DC. From New York City, thank you for
choosing Bloomberg TV. This was
Bloomberg Surveillance.
[Music]
Day four at the Cincinnati Open. Koko
Goff lifted the trophy in Cincy two
years ago on her way to the title at the
US Open and the American got off to a
perfect start as she dispatched China's
Wong Jing Wu in straight sets. She moves
on to face Ukraine's Diana Ystreka for a
place in the fourth round. And don't
forget, you can watch all the action
live daily on Tennis Channel.